--- PAGE 1 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 1 of 28  
 
 
 
 
 
LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA 
(Established by the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956) 
Registration Number: 512 
 
LIC’s Jeevan Utsav (UIN:512N363V02) 
(A  Non-Par, Non-Linked, Individual, Savings, Whole Life Insurance Plan) 
 
PART-A 
Ref: NB 
 
 
 
 
 
            (Address and e-mail id of Branch Office): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Policyholder, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: 
 
Re: Your Policy No. _______________ 
 
We have pleasure in forwarding herewith the above Policy Document comprising of Part A to Part 
G, Customer Information Sheet (CIS), Benefit Illustration and Need Analysis document.  
 
We would also like to draw your kind attention to the information mentioned in the Schedule of the 
Policy and the benefits available under the Policy. 
 
Some of our plans have certain options (including rider(s)) available under them. It is important that 
the options, if any, available under this plan and mentioned in the Policy Document are noted 
carefully as it will be helpful to you in case you decide to exercise any of the available options. It is 
also essential to note that such options, if available and mentioned in the document of this plan has 
to be exercised in the right manner and during the stipulated time limit as prescribed herein. 
 
Free Look Period 
 
We would request you to go through the terms and conditions of the Policy and in case you 
disagree with any of the terms and conditions, you may return the Policy within a period of 30 days 
from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical mode of the Policy Document, whichever is 
earlier, stating the reasons for your objections and disagreement. On receipt of the policy, we shall 
cancel the same and the amount of Premium deposited by you shall be refunded to you after 
deducting the proportionate risk premium (for Base Policy and Rider(s), if any) for the period of 
cover and charges for medical examination (including special reports, if any) and for stamp duty. 
 
In case you have any Complaints/Grievance, you may approach the Branch office on the address 
mentioned above or Grievance Redressal Officer/ Ombudsman, whose addresses are as under: 
 
Address of Grievance Redressal Officer: 
 
Address and contact details of Insurance Ombudsman: 
 
If you find any errors in this Policy Document, you may return this Policy for corrections. 
 
Thanking you. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Chief/Sr./Branch Manager 
 
Agent’s/ Intermediary’s
Code 
Agent’s/ Intermediary’s
Name 
Agent’s/Intermediary’s 
/
Mobile Number/ Landline 
Number 
 
Space for Address and e-mail id of 
Branch Office
 
Space for Name and Address of 
Policyholder 


--- PAGE 2 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 2 of 28  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We would also like to draw your attention to the following aspects: 
 
1) Change of Address: In case you change your residence, kindly ensure that you inform the 
change in address to the servicing Branch Office. 
 
2) Assignment: Assignment should be in accordance with the provisions of Section 38 of Insurance 
Act 1938, as amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 38 are enclosed as 
Annexure-1 for reference.  
 
3) Nomination: Nomination should be in accordance with the provision of Section 39 of the 
Insurance Act 1938, as amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 39 are 
enclosed as Annexure-2 for reference.  
 
4) Policyholder or the claimant, as applicable, is required to intimate the Corporation, about the 
happening of the insured event resulting into a claim under the policy, at the earliest possible 
time.. 
 
5) The provisions of Section 45 of Insurance Act 1938, as amended from time to time shall be 
applicable. The current provisions of the same are enclosed as Annexure-3. 
 
6) Various Sections of the Insurance Act, 1938, applicable to LIC to apply as amended from time to 
time. 
 
7) The approved version of Policy Document in respect of this plan is available on our website : 
www.licindia.in 
 
8) Please avail LIC’s e-services. Visit our website: www.licindia.in to enable us to serve you better. 
 
9) For Customer Services, you can contact LIC call centre at +91-022 68276827 whose services 
are available 24*7 in English, Hindi and 8 Regional Languages. 
 
These measures will enable us to serve you better. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 3 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 3 of 28  
 
 
 
 
 
 
PREAMBLE 
 
THE LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA (hereinafter called “the Corporation”) having 
received a Proposal along with Declaration and the First Premium from the Proposer and the Life 
Assured named in the Schedule referred to herein below and the said Proposal and Declaration with 
the statements contained and referred to therein having been agreed to by the said Proposer and 
the Corporation as basis of this assurance do by this Policy agree, in consideration of and subject to 
the due receipt of the subsequent premiums as set out in the Schedule, to pay the benefits, but 
without interest, at the Branch Office of the Corporation where this Policy is serviced to the person 
or persons to whom the same is payable in terms of the said Schedule, on proof to the satisfaction 
of the Corporation of the benefits having become payable as set out in this Policy Document, of the 
title of the said person or persons claiming payment and of the correctness of the age of the Life 
Assured stated in the Proposal if not previously admitted. 
 
And it is hereby declared that this Policy of Assurance shall be subject to Definitions, Benefits, 
Conditions related to Servicing Aspects, Other Terms and Conditions and Statutory Provisions 
printed in this policy and that the Schedule and every endorsement placed on the Policy by the 
Corporation shall be deemed part of the Policy.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 4 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 4 of 28  
 
 
 
 
         SCHEDULE 
    DIVISIONAL OFFICE:                                                                                     BRANCH OFFICE: 
Policy Number: 
 
UIN: 
 
Plan Number: 
 
Premium Paying Term: 
 
Basic Sum Assured (Rs.): 
 
Date of Commencement of 
Policy (DD/MM/YYYY): 
 
Date of Commencement of 
Risk (DD/MM/YYYY): 
 
Date of  Issuance of  Policy 
(DD/MM/YYYY): 
 
Option Chosen: 
 
 
Sum Assured on Death (Rs.): 
 
Instalment Premium for Base 
Policy (Rs.): 
 
Total Instalment Premium (Rs): 
 
(Taxes, if any, as applicable 
from time to time are charged 
extra) 
 
Mode of payment of Premium: 
 
Due 
date 
of 
Premium 
(DD/MM/YYYY): 
 
Due Date of Payment of Last 
Premium 
for 
Base 
Policy 
(DD/MM/YYYY): 
 
Date of birth of the Life Assured 
(DD/MM/YYYY): 
 
Age of the Life Assured: 
 
Whether age admitted? 
 
Whether Option to take Death 
Benefit in instalments taken? 
 
Benefit Illustration Reference 
No: 
 
Proposal No: 
 
Date of Proposal 
(DD/MM/YYYY): 
Details of Rider(s) opted: 
S. 
No.
Rider 
Opted
UIN
Date of 
Commencement 
of Risk for Rider 
(DD/MM/YYYY) 
Rider 
Sum 
Assured 
(Rs.) 
Instalment 
Premium for Rider 
(Rs.) 
Due date of 
payment of 
last premium 
for Rider 
(DD/MM/YYYY) 
Date of 
expiry of 
rider 
(DD/MM/Y
YYY)    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Conditions of the rider(s) opted and mentioned above are enclosed as endorsement to the policy. 
Name, Gender and Address of Proposer 
 
 
Name, Gender and Address of Life Assured 
Details of Nominee(s) under Section 39 of the Insurance Act,1938 as amended from time to time 
Type of Nomination: 
Nominee(s) 
Name 
Nominee’
s Age 
Percentage 
Share 
Relationship to the Life 
Assured 
Appointee Name (in case the 
Nominee is a minor) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Period during which premiums are payable  
Till the stipulated due date of last premium or 
earlier death of the Life Assured. 
Dates when premiums are payable 
On the stipulated due date in ……………..... 
 
Signed on behalf of the Corporation at the above-mentioned Branch Office, whose address and e-
mail ID are given on the first page and to which all communications relating to the policy should be 
addressed. 
 
Date (DD/MM/YYYY):  
 
Examined by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Form No.:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief/ Sr. /Branch Manager  
 


--- PAGE 5 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 5 of 28  
 
 
 
 
PART-B: DEFINITIONS 
 
The definitions of terms/words used in the Policy Document are as under: 
 
1. Age is the age nearer birthday of the Life Assured at the time of commencement of the policy 
except for age 0 year for which the age is 30 days completed and at the minimum age at entry 
where age is calculated in completed years as per the chosen Premium Paying Term. 
2. Appointee is the person to whom the proceeds/benefits secured under the Policy are payable if 
the benefit becomes payable to the nominee and nominee is minor as on the date of claim 
payment. 
3. Annualized Premium shall be the premium amount payable in a year chosen by the 
policyholder excluding the taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra premiums and loadings for 
modal premiums, if any. 
4. Assignee is the person to whom the rights and benefits are transferred by virtue of an 
Assignment.  
5. Assignment is the process of transferring the rights and benefits to an “Assignee”. Assignment 
should be in accordance with the provisions of Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as 
amended from time to time. 
6. Base Policy is that part of the Policy referring to basic benefit (benefits referred to in this Policy 
Document excluding benefits covered under rider(s), if opted for). 
7. Basic Sum Assured means the amount specified in the Schedule as opted by the Policyholder 
at the time of taking the policy.  
8. Beneficiary/Claimant means the person(s)/entity who is/are entitled to receive benefits under 
this Policy. The Beneficiary to whom benefits are payable is the Proposer or Life Assured or his 
Assignee under Section 38 of the Insurance Act,1938 as amended from time to time or 
Nominee(s) under Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time or 
proved Executors or Administrators or other Legal Representatives who should take out 
representation to his/ her Estate or limited to the moneys payable under this Policy from any 
Court of any State or Territory of the Union of India, as applicable. 
9. Continued Insurability is the determination of insurability of Life Assured/Proposer on revival of 
policy with rider(s) if opted for, to the satisfaction of the Corporation based on the information, 
documents and reports that are already available and any additional information in this regard if 
and as may be required in accordance with the Underwriting Policy of the Corporation at the 
time of revival. 
10. Corporation means the Life Insurance Corporation of India established under Section 3 of the 
LIC Act, 1956. 
11. Date of commencement of policy is the start date of this Policy. 
12. Date of commencement of risk is the date on which the Corporation accepts the risk for 
insurance (cover) as evidenced in the Schedule of the policy.  
13. Date of issuance of policy is a date when a proposal after underwriting is accepted as a policy 
and this contract gets effected. 
14. Date of Vesting shall be the policy anniversary date coinciding with or immediately following the 
completion of 18 years of age. On such vesting date, this policy shall be deemed to be a 
contract between the Corporation and the Life Assured. The Life Assured shall become the 
absolute owner of the policy and the proposer or his estate shall cease to have any right or 
interest therein.  
15. Death Benefit means the benefit, which is payable on death of the life assured, as stated in this 
Policy Document. 
16. Discharge form is the form to be filled by policyholder/claimant to claim the 
maturity/surrender/death benefit under the policy. 
17. Due Date means a fixed date on which the policy premium is due and payable by the 
policyholder. 
18. Endorsement means conditions attached/ affixed to this Policy incorporating any additions, 
amendments or modifications agreed to or issued by the Corporation. 
19. Extra premium means a charge due to underwriting decision, for any additional risk not 
provided for, in minimum contract premium. 
20. Foreclosure is an action of closing the policy due to default in payment of outstanding loan 


--- PAGE 6 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 6 of 28  
 
 
 
 
and/or loan interest on due date when the outstanding loan amount along with interest is to 
exceed the surrender value. 
21. Free Look Period is the period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical 
mode of the Policy Document, whichever is earlier, by the Policyholder to review the terms and 
conditions of this policy and where the Policyholder disagrees to any of those terms and 
conditions, he/ she has the option to return this policy as detailed in Condition 7 of Part D of this 
Policy Document. 
22. Government Security (G-Sec) in this Policy Document refers to the tradeable instruments 
issued by Central Government for various durations, declared as benchmark securities 
corresponding to the stated tenors, by Reserve Bank of India. 
23. Grace period is the time granted by the insurer from the due date for the payment of premium, 
without any penalty or late fee, during which time the policy is considered to be in-force with the 
risk cover without any interruption as per the terms and conditions of the Policy.  
24. Guaranteed Surrender Value is the minimum guaranteed amount of Surrender Value payable 
to the policyholder on surrender of the policy. 
25. In-force policy means a policy in which all the due premiums have been paid and the 
premiums are not outstanding beyond grace period. 
26. IRDAI means Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India earlier called as 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA). 
27. Lapse is the status of the Policy when due premium is not paid within the grace period. 
28. Life Assured is the person on whose life the insurance cover has been accepted. 
29. Loan is the interest-bearing repayable amount granted by the Corporation against the surrender 
value payable to the policyholder in accordance with the terms and conditions as specified 
under Condition 5 of Part D. 
30. Material information shall mean all important, essential and relevant information and 
documents explicitly sought by the Corporation in the proposal form. The information already 
known to the Policyholder/Life Assured/Proposer at the time of obtaining a policy which has a 
bearing on underwriting of the proposal /Policy submitted constitutes Material Information. 
31. Minor is a person who has not completed 18 years of age. 
32. Nomination is the process of nominating a person(s) who is (are) named as “Nominee(s)” in the 
proposal form or subsequently included/ changed by an endorsement. Nomination should be in 
accordance with provisions of Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to 
time. 
33. Nominee(s) means the person(s) nominated by the Policyholder (who is also the Life Assured) 
under this Policy who is (are) authorised to receive the claim benefit payable under this Policy 
and to give a valid discharge to the Corporation on settlement of the claim. 
34. Non-Par Products means products where policies are not entitled for any share in surplus 
(profits) during the term of the policy. 
 
35. Option to take Death Benefit in instalments: Option to take death benefit in instalments, as 
specified in Condition 8 of Part D of this Policy Document, is an option available under this 
Policy, to receive Death Benefit in instalments instead of lumpsum amount over a period chosen 
by the Policyholder/Life Assured. 
36. Paid - Up is the status of the Policy if the premiums are paid for at least one full years and 
subsequent premium/s be not paid and on completion of first policy year.. 
37. Policy Anniversary means one year from the date of commencement of the Policy and the 
same date falling each year thereafter, till the termination of the policy. 
38. Policy/ Policy Document means this document along with endorsements, if any, issued by the 
Corporation which is a legal contract between the Policyholder and the Corporation. 
39. Policyholder is the legal owner of this policy. 
40. Policy year is the period between two consecutive policy anniversaries. This period includes 
the first day and excludes the next policy anniversary day. 
41. Premium is the contractual amount payable by the Policyholder at specified times periodically 
as mentioned in the Schedule of this Policy Document to secure the benefits under the policy. 
The premium payable will be “Total Instalment Premium” which includes 
 
Instalment Premium for Base Policy and  
 
Instalment Premium for Rider(s), if rider(s) has been opted for. 


--- PAGE 7 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 7 of 28  
 
 
 
 
The term ‘Premium’ used anywhere in this Policy Document does not include any taxes which 
are payable separately. 
42. Premium Paying Term means the period, in years, during which premium is payable. 
43. Proposer is a person who proposes the life insurance proposal. 
44. Pure Risk Products means insurance products (without any saving element) where the 
payment of agreed amount is assured on the happening of death of the life assured or on 
happening of insured health related contingency within the term of the policy. 
45. Revival of a policy means restoration of the policy, which was discontinued due to the non-
payment of premium by the insurer with all benefits mentioned in the Policy Document, with or 
without rider benefits if any, upon the receipt of all the premiums due and other charges or late 
fee, if any, during the revival period as per the terms and conditions of the policy, upon being 
satisfied as to the Continued Insurability of the Life Assured and/or Proposer (if LIC’s Premium 
Waiver Benefit Rider is opted for). 
46. Revival Period means the period of five consecutive complete years from the date of first 
unpaid premium, during which period the policyholder is entitled to revive the policy which was 
discontinued due to the non-payment of premium. 
47. Rider means the insurance cover(s) added to a base policy for additional premium or charge.  
48. Rider Benefits means an amount of benefit payable on occurrence of  a specified event 
covered under the rider, and is an additional benefit to benefit under Base Policy. 
49. Rider Premium is the premium payable by the Policyholder along with the premium under Base 
Policy towards the additional cover/benefit opted under the rider, if opted. 
50. Rider Sum Assured is the assured amount payable on happening of a specified event covered 
under the rider, if opted. 
51. Savings Products means those products other than Pure Risk Products. 
52. Schedule is the part of Policy Document that gives the specific details of your policy.  
53. Sum Assured on Death means an absolute amount of benefit which is guaranteed to become 
payable on death of life assured in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy as 
mentioned in Condition 1.A of Part C of this Policy Document. 
54. Surrender means complete withdrawal or termination of the entire policy before expiry of the 
policy term. 
55. Surrender Value means an amount, if any, that becomes payable in case of surrender in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
56. Survival Benefit means Regular Income Benefit or Flexi Income Benefit as per the option 
chosen by the policyholder, payable or falling due on survival of the Life Assured subject to the 
conditions as specified under Condition 1. B of Part C of this Policy Document. 
57. Total Premiums Paid means the total of all premiums received, excluding any extra premium, 
any rider premium and taxes. In case LIC’s Premium Waiver Benefit Rider is opted for, in the 
event of death of Proposer, any subsequent Premiums which are waived shall be deemed to 
have been received and be included in the Total Premiums Paid. 
58. Underwriting is the term used to describe the process of assessing risk and ensuring that the 
cost of the cover is proportionate to the risks faced by the individual concerned. Based on 
underwriting, a decision on acceptance or rejection of cover as well as applicability of suitable 
premium or modified terms, if any, is taken.  
59. UIN means the Unique Identification Number allotted to this plan by the IRDAI. 
60. Whole Life Insurance means an insurance policy which does not have a definite policy term 
and the policy terminates on death of the Life Assured.  
 
 
 
 
 
PART-C: BENEFITS 
 
1. The following benefits are payable under an in-force policy: 
 
A. Death Benefit: 
On death of the Life Assured after the date of commencement of risk, Death Benefit equal to 


--- PAGE 8 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 8 of 28  
 
 
 
 
“Sum Assured on Death” along with accrued Guaranteed Additions shall be payable, 
provided the policy is in-force. 
 
This Death Benefit shall not be less than 105% of “Total Premiums Paid” up to the date of 
death. 
 
The “Sum Assured on Death” is defined as higher of Basic Sum Assured or 7 times of 
Annualized Premium. 
 
However, in case of minor Life Assured, whose age at entry is below 8 years, on death 
before the commencement of Risk (as specified in Condition 4 of Part C below), the death 
benefit payable shall be the refund of premium(s) paid (excluding taxes, any extra premium 
and rider premium(s), if any), without interest. 
 
The Death Benefit shall be paid in lump sum as specified above and/or in instalments, as 
specified in Condition 8 of Part D of this Policy Document, as per the option exercised by the 
Policyholder/ Life Assured. 
 
On payment of Death Benefit, the policy shall terminate and no further benefits shall be 
payable. 
 
B.  Survival Benefit:  
 
Survival Benefits in form of Regular Income Benefit or Flexi Income Benefit as per the option 
chosen shall be as under: 
 
Option I – Regular Income Benefit:  
On survival of Life Assured, Regular Income Benefit equal to 10% of Basic Sum 
Assured shall be payable at the end of each policy year starting from the year as 
specified in Table 1 below, provided all due premium have been paid. 
 
Option II – Flexi Income Benefit:  
On survival of Life Assured, the policyholder shall be eligible for Flexi Income Benefit 
equal to 10% of Basic Sum Assured at the end of each policy year starting from the year 
as specified in Table 1 below, provided all due premium have been paid.  
 
Policyholder shall have the flexibility to defer and accumulate such Flexi Income 
Benefits. 
 
The Corporation shall pay interest on the deferred and accumulated Flexi Income 
Benefit at the rate of 5.5% p.a. compounding yearly for completed months from its due 
date till the date of withdrawal or surrender or death, whichever is earlier. Fraction of 
months will be ignored for the purpose of calculation of interest.  
 
Policyholder on written request can withdraw once in a policy year, a maximum of 75% 
of balance accumulated Flexi Income Benefit(s) including interest, if any, which has not 
already been withdrawn and the net amount after withdrawal will continue to accumulate 
as mentioned above.    
 
The accumulated Flexi Income Benefit(s) due and not withdrawn along with interest (if 
any) shall be payable on death or surrender, whichever is earlier. 
 
Table 1 placed below indicates the Policy year at the end of which first Regular Income 
Benefit / Flexi Income Benefit becomes due on survival of Life Assured. 
 
Table 1
Premium Paying Term
Regular Income Benefit / Flexi 
Income Benefit Start Year 
5 years 
11th policy year 
6 years 
11th policy year 


--- PAGE 9 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 9 of 28  
 
 
 
 
7 years 
11th policy year 
8 years 
11th policy year 
9 years 
12th policy year 
10 years 
13th policy year 
11 years 
14th policy year 
12 years 
15th policy year 
13 years 
16th policy year 
14 years 
17th policy year 
15 years 
18th policy year 
16 years 
19th policy year 
 
The policyholder can change the option exercised by him at the inception of the policy at any 
time up to six months before the beginning of the policy year in which the first Regular 
Income Benefit or Flexi Income Benefit becomes due. 
 
C. Maturity Benefit:  
 
Maturity Benefit is not available under the policy. 
 
2. Guaranteed Additions:  
 
Under an inforce policy, the Guaranteed Additions shall accrue at the rate of Rs. 40 per 
thousand Basic Sum Assured at the end of each policy year during the Premium Paying Term. 
There shall be no further accrual of Guaranteed Additions after Premium Paying Term. 
 
In case the premiums are not duly paid, the Guaranteed Additions shall cease to accrue under a 
policy. 
 
Under an inforce policy on death of Life Assured during the Premium Paying Term, the 
Guaranteed Addition in the year of death shall be payable for full policy year. 
 
In case of surrender of an inforce policy during the Premium Paying Term, the Guaranteed 
Additions for the policy year in which the policy is surrendered will be added on proportionate 
basis in proportion to the completed months for the Policy Year in which policy is surrendered.  
 
3. Rider Benefits: 
The following four Optional rider(s) (or amended versions of these) shall be available on 
payment of additional premium: 
a) LIC’s Accidental Death and Disability Benefit Rider  
b) LIC’s Accident Benefit Rider  
c) LIC’s New Term Assurance Rider  
d) LIC’s Premium Waiver Benefit Rider  
 
However, the eligible Life Assured can opt between either of LIC’s Accidental Death and 
Disability Benefit Rider) or LIC’s Accident Benefit Rider and/or the remaining two riders subject 
to the eligibility as detailed below: 
 
LIC’s Accidental Death and Disability Benefit Rider / LIC’s Accident Benefit Rider: Under 
an in-force policy either of these riders can be opted for at any time within the Premium Paying 
Term of the Base Policy provided the outstanding Premium Paying Term of the Base Policy as 
well as the Riders is atleast five years but before the policy anniversary on which the age nearer 
birthday of the Life Assured is 65 years. Under the policy on the life of minors, this rider will be 
available from the policy anniversary following completion of age 18 years on receipt of specific 
request. 
 
LIC’s Premium Waiver Benefit Rider: Under an in-force policy, this Rider can be opted for on 
the life of Proposer of policy (as the Life Assured is minor), at any time coinciding with the Policy 
Anniversary but within the Premium Paying Term of the Base Policy provided the outstanding 
premium paying term of the Base Policy and rider is atleast five years. Further this rider shall 
only be allowed under the policy wherein the Life Assured is Minor at the time of opting this 
rider. The Rider term shall be outstanding premium paying term of Base policy as on date of 


--- PAGE 10 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 10 of 28   
 
 
 
opting this rider or (25 minus age of the minor Life Assured at the time of opting this rider), 
whichever is lower. 
 
If this rider is opted for, on death of proposer, payment of premiums in respect of Base Policy 
falling due on and after the date of death till the expiry of Rider Term shall be waived. However, 
in such case, if the Premium Paying Term of the Base Policy exceeds the rider term, all the 
further premiums due under the Base Policy from the date of expiry of this Premium Waiver 
Benefit Rider Term shall be payable by the Life Assured. On non-payment of such premium, the 
policy would become paid-up. 
 
LIC’s New Term Assurance Rider: This rider  is available only at the inception of the policy on 
payment of additional premium. 
   
Conditions of the rider(s), if opted, are enclosed as endorsement to this policy. 
 
4. Date of Commencement of Risk: 
In case the age at entry of the Life Assured is less than 8 years, the risk under this plan will 
commence either 2 years from the date of commencement of policy or from the policy 
anniversary coinciding with or immediately following the attainment of 8 years of age, whichever 
is earlier. 
 
For those aged 8 years or more at entry, risk will commence immediately from the Date of 
issuance of policy. 
 
5. Vesting of policy on the life of a minor:  
If the Life Assured is alive on the Date of Vesting and if a request in writing for surrendering the 
policy has not been received by Corporation before such Date of Vesting from the person 
entitled to the policy moneys, this policy shall automatically vest in the Life Assured on such 
Date of Vesting. 
 
6. Payment of Premiums: 
(a) The policyholder has to pay the Premium on the due dates as specified in the Schedule of 
this Policy Document along with applicable taxes, if any, from time to time. 
 
(b) In case of death of Life Assured under an in-force policy wherein all the premiums due till the 
date of death have been paid and where the mode of payment of premium is other than 
yearly, balance premium(s), if any, falling due from the date of death and before the next 
policy anniversary shall be deducted from the claim amount. 
 
The Corporation does not have any obligation to issue a notice that premium is due or for the 
amount that is due. 
 
7. Grace Period: 
A grace period of 30 days shall be allowed for payment of yearly or half-yearly or quarterly 
premiums and 15 days for monthly premiums from the date of First Unpaid Premium. If the 
premium is not paid before the expiry of the days of grace, the Policy lapses.  
 
If the death of the Life Assured occurs within the grace period but before the payment of the 
premium then due, the policy will still be valid and the benefits shall be paid after deductions of 
the said unpaid premium as also the balance premium (s), if any, falling due from the date of 
death and before the next policy anniversary.  
 
The above grace period will also apply to rider premiums which are payable along with premium 
for base policy. 
 
PART-D: CONDITIONS RELATED TO SERVICING ASPECTS 
 
1. Proof of Age:  
The Premium payable under the Base Policy and Premium for Optional Riders have been 
calculated on the age of the Life Assured as declared in the Proposal Form.  
 


--- PAGE 11 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 11 of 28   
 
 
 
In case, the age of Life Assured is mis-stated in the Proposal Form and correct age is found to 
be different (higher or lower) than such age, without prejudice to the Corporation’s other rights 
and remedies, including the provisions under Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to 
time, Corporation shall check the eligibility of Life Assured based on the correct age as on the 
date of commencement of policy and the following action shall be taken: 
 
If the Life Assured remains eligible for Base Policy and Rider(s) opted, if any:  
 
Subject to the then existing underwriting norms, the premium for the Base Policy and Rider(s) 
opted, if any, shall be re-calculated on the Basic Sum Assured and Rider(s) Sum Assured 
respectively for the correct age and the revised premium(s) shall be payable by the policyholder 
under the Base Policy and Rider(s). Further, accumulated difference between the premiums for 
the correct age and the original premiums, from the commencement of the Base Policy / Rider 
upto the date of payment of revised premium shall be paid to the Corporation with interest at 
such rate as fixed by the Corporation from time to time. Any outstanding premium and/or 
interest, if unpaid the same shall be recoverable from any claim proceeds payable under the 
policy.  
 
If the correct age is found to be lower than the declared age, excess Premium for Base Policy 
and Rider(s) premium collected shall be refunded without interest. 
 
If the Life Assured is ineligible for Base Policy: 
 
Base Policy along with opted Rider(s) shall be cancelled and the Premiums paid towards Base 
Policy and Rider(s), if any, shall be refunded without interest subject to deduction of all 
applicable expenses like proportionate risk premium [for Base Policy and Rider(s), if any] for the 
period of cover, applicable taxes and charges for medical examination, special reports, if any 
and stamp duty, incurred under the policy. The policy shall terminate on said payment. 
 
If Life Assured is eligible for Base Policy but ineligible for any of the opted Riders: 
 
Such Rider(s) shall be cancelled and the Premiums paid in respect of such Rider(s) shall be 
refunded without interest, subject to deduction of all applicable expenses like proportionate risk 
premium for Rider(s) for the period of cover, applicable taxes and charges for medical 
examination, special reports, if any and stamp duty, incurred in respect of the Rider(s). The 
respective Rider(s) shall terminate on said payment. However, the Base Policy shall continue 
with the altered terms.  
 
2. Forfeiture and Non-forfeiture Regulations: 
 
Forfeiture Regulations: 
 
i) If less than one full year’s premiums has been paid in respect of this policy and any 
subsequent premium be not duly paid, all the benefits under this policy shall cease after the 
expiry of grace period from the date of First Unpaid Premium and nothing shall be payable, 
and the Premiums paid thitherto are also not refundable. 
 
ii) Forfeiture in Certain Other Events: 
In case any condition herein contained or endorsed hereon be contravened or in case it is 
found that any untrue or incorrect statement is contained in the proposal, personal 
statement, declaration and connected documents or any material information is withheld, 
then and in every such case this policy shall be void and all claims to any benefit in virtue of 
this policy shall be subject to the provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as 
amended from time to time. 
 
Non-forfeiture Regulations: 
 
If, after at least one full year’s premiums have been paid and any subsequent premiums be not 
duly paid, on completion of first policy year this policy shall not be wholly void, but shall subsist 
as a paid-up policy till the Life Assured survives or the policy terminates, whichever is earlier. 
 


--- PAGE 12 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 12 of 28   
 
 
 
The ‘Sum Assured on Death’ under a paid-up policy shall be reduced to such a sum, called 
‘Death Paid-up Sum Assured’ and shall be equal to ‘Sum Assured on Death’ multiplied by 
the ratio of the total period for which premiums have already been paid bears to the maximum 
period for which premiums were originally payable.  
 
The Basic Sum Assured under a paid-up policy shall be reduced to such a sum, called ‘Paid-up 
Sum Assured’ and shall be equal to Basic Sum Assured multiplied by the ratio of the total 
period for which premiums have already been paid bears to the maximum period for which 
premiums were originally payable.  
 
The policy so reduced shall thereafter be free from all liabilities for payment of the within 
mentioned premiums. 
 
The Guaranteed Additions accrued under the policy for the period for which premiums have 
been paid will remain attached where the policy becomes paid-up by non payment of premium. 
No Guaranteed Addition shall accrue once the policy becomes paid-up. 
 
The Guaranteed Additions for the policy year in which less than full year premium have been 
paid before the policy becomes paidup shall accrue on proportionate basis in proportion to the 
premium(s) paid for that policy year.  
 
The benefits payable under a Paid-up policy shall be as under: 
 
(a) Under a Paid-up Policy where Paid-up Sum Assured is less than Rs 2,00,000:  
 
On death of the life assured, Death Benefit equal to ‘Death Paid-up Sum Assured’ along 
with accrued Guaranteed Additions shall be payable to the Nominee/ Beneficiary.  
 
On survival of Life Assured, Regular Income Benefits or Flexi Income Benefits shall not be 
payable under a Paid-up Policy where Paid-up Sum Assured is less than Rs  2,00,000. 
 
(b) Under a Paid-up Policy where Paid-up Sum Assured is equal to or greater than Rs 
2,00,000: 
 
i. Under Option I- Regular Income Benefit:  
 
On death of the Life Assured, Death Benefit equal to ‘Death Paid-up Sum Assured’ 
along with accrued Guaranteed Additions shall be payable to the Nominee/ 
Beneficiary. 
 
On survival of life assured, Regular Income Benefit as specified below shall be payable 
at the end of each policy year starting from the year as specified  in Table 1 under 
Condition 1.B of Part C.  
 
Paid –up Sum Assured 
Regular Income Benefit 
Rs 2,00,000 and above but less than Rs 3,00,000 
5% of Paid-up Sum Assured 
Rs 3,00,000 and above but less than Rs 4,00,000 
6% of Paid-up Sum Assured 
Rs 4,00,000 and above but less than Rs 5,00,000 
7% of Paid-up Sum Assured 
Rs 5,00,000 and above  
10% of Paid-up Sum Assured 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii. Under Option II - Flexi Income Benefit:  
 
On death of the Life Assured, Death Benefit equal to ‘Death Paid-up Sum Assured’ 
along with accrued Guaranteed Additions shall be payable to the Nominee/ 
Beneficiary.  
 


--- PAGE 13 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 13 of 28   
 
 
 
On survival of life assured, the policyholder shall be eligible for Flexi Income Benefit as 
specified below at the end of each policy year starting from the year as specified in 
Table 1 under Condition 1.B of Part C.  
 
Paid –up Sum Assured 
Flexi Income Benefit 
Rs 2,00,000 and above but less than Rs 3,00,000 
5% of Paid-up Sum Assured 
Rs 3,00,000 and above but less than Rs 4,00,000 
6% of Paid-up Sum Assured 
Rs 4,00,000 and above but less than Rs 5,00,000 
7% of Paid-up Sum Assured 
Rs 5,00,000 and above  
10% of Paid-up Sum Assured 
 
All terms and conditions regarding interest on and withdrawal of Flexi Income 
Benefit(s) (due and not withdrawn) shall be as applicable to in-force policies.  
 
The accumulated Flexi Income Benefit(s) due and not withdrawn along with interest (if 
any) shall be payable on death or surrender, whichever is earlier. 
 
The Death Benefit under a paid-up policy shall not be less than 105% of total premiums paid 
upto the date of death. 
 
Notwithstanding what is stated above, if at least three full years’ premiums have been paid in 
respect of this policy, and any subsequent premium be not duly paid, in the event of the death of 
the Life Assured within six months from the due date of First Unpaid Premium, Death Benefit as 
mentioned in Condition 1.A of Part C shall be paid after deduction of (a) the unpaid 
premium(s)for the Base Policy with interest thereon upto the date of death on the same terms as 
for revival of the Policy during such period, and (b) the balance premium(s) for the Base Policy 
falling due from the date of death and before the next Policy anniversary. This provision shall not 
apply in case of death due to suicide. 
 
Notwithstanding what is stated above, if at least five full years' premiums have been paid in 
respect of this policy, and any subsequent  premium be not duly paid, in the event of death of 
the Life Assured within 12 months from the due date of First Unpaid Premium, “Death Benefit” 
as mentioned in Condition 1.A of  Part C shall be paid after deduction of (a) the unpaid 
premium(s) for the base policy with interest thereon upto the date of death on the same terms as 
for revival of the Policy during such period, and (b) the balance premium(s) for the Base policy 
falling due from the date of death and before the next Policy anniversary. This provision shall not 
apply in case of death due to suicide. 
 
All of the above mentioned Non-Forfeiture Regulations do not apply to Riders as the riders do 
not acquire any paid up value. The rider benefits ceases to apply, if policy is in lapsed condition. 
 
3. Revival of lapsed Policies: 
An Insurance Policy would lapse on non-payment of due premium within the days of grace. A 
policy in lapsed condition may be revived during the life time of the Life Assured, but within the 
Revival period. The revival shall be effected on payment of all the arrears of premium(s) 
together with interest (compounding half yearly) at such rate as may be fixed by the Corporation 
from time to time and  on satisfaction of Continued Insurability of the Life Assured and/or 
Proposer (if LIC’s Premium Waiver Benefit Rider is opted for) on the basis of information, 
documents and reports that are already available and any additional information in this regard if 
and as may be required in accordance with the Underwriting Policy of the Corporation at the 
time of revival, being furnished by the Policyholder/Life Assured/Proposer. 
 
The Corporation however, reserves the right to accept at original terms, accept with modified 
terms or decline the revival of a discontinued policy. The revival of the discontinued policy shall 
take effect only after the same is approved, accepted and revival receipt is issued by the 
Corporation. 
 
The rate of interest applicable for revival for every 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April 
shall not exceed 10 year G-Sec Rate p.a. compounding half-yearly as at the last trading day of 
previous financial year plus 3%  or the yield earned on the Corporation’s Non-Linked Non-
Participating fund plus 1%, whichever is higher. For the 12 months’ period commencing from 1st 
May, 2024 to 30th April, 2025, the applicable interest rate shall be 9.50% p.a. compounding half-


--- PAGE 14 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 14 of 28   
 
 
 
yearly. The basis for determination of interest rate for policy revival is subject to change. 
 
Revival of Rider(s), if opted for, will only be considered along with the revival of the Base Policy 
and not in isolation. 
 
4. Surrender: 
The policy can be surrendered by the policyholder after completion of first policy year provided 
one full year’s premium(s) has been paid. However, the policy shall acquire Guaranteed 
Surrender Value on payment of atleast two full years’ premiums and Special Surrender Value 
after completion of first policy year provided one full year’s premium(s) has been paid. On 
surrender of an in-force or paid-up policy, the Corporation shall pay the Surrender Value equal 
to higher of Guaranteed Surrender Value and Special Surrender Value. 
 
The Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV) shall be as under: 
 
 
Option I - Regular Income Benefit 
The Guaranteed Surrender Value shall be the sum of (total premiums paid multiplied by 
the GSV factor applicable to total premiums) and (Accrued Guaranteed Additions 
multiplied by GSV factor applicable to accrued Guaranteed Additions) reduced by 
Regular Income Benefits due and paid till the date of surrender, if any. 
 
 
Option II – Flexi Income Benefit 
 
The Guaranteed Surrender Value shall be the sum of (total premiums paid multiplied by 
the GSV factor applicable to total premiums) and (Accrued Guaranteed Additions 
multiplied by GSV factor applicable to accrued Guaranteed Additions) reduced by Flexi 
Income Benefits due till the date of surrender, if any. 
 
In addition, any accumulated Flexi Income Benefit(s) due and not withdrawn along with 
interest (if any) till the date of surrender shall also be payable. 
 
Premiums referred above shall not include any taxes, extra amount chargeable under the policy 
due to underwriting decision and rider premium(s), if any. 
 
The GSV factors applicable to total premiums paid are expressed as percentages and depend 
on the Policy Year in which the policy will be surrendered and are enclosed as Annexure – 4 of 
this Policy Document. 
 
The GSV factors applicable to accrued Guaranteed Additions are expressed as percentages 
and depend on the policy year in which the policy will be surrendered and are enclosed as 
Annexure – 5 of this Policy Document. 
 
The Special Surrender Value shall be determined and reviewed annually in line with IRDAI 
Master Circular on Life Insurance Products, Ref: IRDAI/ACTL/MSTCIR/MISC/89/6/2024 dated 
12th June, 2024 and any subsequent circulars issued by IRDAI in this regards. 
 
Upon payment of Surrender Value, the Policy terminates and no further benefits shall be 
payable. 
 
No surrender value will be available on Rider(s), if any.  
 
5. Policy Loan: 
Loan shall be available under the Policy subject to the following terms and conditions, within the 
surrender value of the policy for such amounts and on such further terms and conditions as the 
Corporation may fix from time to time: 
 
a. 
Loan can be availed after completion of first policy year provided one full year’s premium(s) 
has been paid. 
 
b. 
The maximum permissible amount of loan shall be as under: 
 
(i) If loan is availed before beginning of the policy year in which the first Regular Income 


--- PAGE 15 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 15 of 28   
 
 
 
Benefits / Flexi Income Benefit becomes due:  
 
The maximum loan permissible as a percentage of surrender value under both options 
shall be as under: 
 For in-force policies- upto 75% 
 For paid-up policies- upto 50% 
 
(ii)  If loan is availed from the beginning of the policy year in which the first Regular Income 
Benefits / Flexi Income Benefit becomes due:  
 
Option I 
The maximum permissible amount of loan (where no previous loan is outstanding) for 
policies which are entitled for Regular Income Benefits shall be arrived at in such a way 
that the effective annual interest amount payable on loan does not exceed 50% of the 
annual Regular Income Benefit payable under the policy subject to maximum of 75% of 
Surrender value in case of inforce policies and 50% of Surrender value in case of paidup 
policies. 
 
Option II 
The maximum permissible amount of loan (where no previous loan is outstanding) for 
policies which are entitled for Flexi Income Benefits shall be arrived at in such a way that 
the effective annual interest amount payable on loan does not exceed 50 % of the 
annual Flexi Income Benefit eligible under the policy subject to maximum of 75% of 
Surrender value in case of inforce policies and 50% of Surrender value in case of paidup 
policies. In addition, loan upto 50% of Flexi Income Benefits due and not withdrawn is 
also permissible. 
 
c. 
The loan during the minority of Life Assured can be availed by the Proposer provided the 
loan is raised for the benefit of the minor Life Assured. 
 
d. 
The Policy shall be assigned absolutely to and held by the Corporation as security for the 
repayment of Loan and of the interest thereon. 
 
e. 
Interest on Loan shall be paid on compounding half-yearly basis to the Corporation at the 
rate to be specified by the Corporation at the time of taking loan under this policy. The rate 
of loan interest applicable for full loan term, for the loan to be availed under this policy for 
every 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April shall not exceed 10 year G-Sec Rate 
p.a. compounding half-yearly as at the last trading date of previous financial year plus 3% 
or the yield earned on the Corporation’s Non-Linked Non-Participating fund plus 1%, 
whichever is higher. For loan sanctioned during 12 months’ period commencing from 1st 
May, 2024 to 30th April, 2025, the applicable interest rate shall be 9.50% p.a. compounding 
half-yearly for entire term of the loan. The basis of determination of interest rate for policy 
loan is subject to change. The first payment of interest is to be made on the next Policy 
anniversary or on the date six months before the next Policy anniversary whichever 
immediately follows the date on which the Loan is sanctioned and every half year 
thereafter.  
 
Under both options, outstanding loan interest, if any, shall be recovered from the annual 
Regular Income Benefits or Flexi Income Benefit as the case may be. 
 
f. 
Under Option I : 
In the event of default in payment of loan interest on the due dates and when the 
outstanding loan along with interest is to exceed the surrender value, the Corporation 
would be entitled to foreclose such policies. Such policies when being foreclosed shall be 
entitled to payment of the difference of surrender value and the loan outstanding amount 
along with interest, if any. 
 
Under Option II: 
In the event of default in payment of loan interest on the due dates and when the 
outstanding loan along with interest is to exceed the sum of Surrender value and any 
accumulated Flexi Income Benefits with interest, the Corporation would be entitled to 


--- PAGE 16 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 16 of 28   
 
 
 
foreclose such policies. Any excess after adjustment shall be payable to the Policyholder 
and the policy shall be terminated.  
 
g. 
In case the policy is surrendered or becomes a claim by death, the Corporation shall 
become entitled to deduct the amount of the Loan or any portion thereof which is 
outstanding, together with all interest from the policy moneys. 
 
h. 
Corporation is entitled to recover or recall the amount of the Loan with all due interest by 
giving 3 months’ notice. 
 
6. Termination of Policy: 
The policy shall immediately and automatically terminate on the earliest occurrence of any of the 
following events: 
a) The date on which lump sum death benefit/final instalment of death benefit is paid; or 
b) The date on which surrender benefits are settled under the policy; or  
c) In the event of default in payment of loan interest as specified in Condition 5 of Part D of 
this Policy Document; or  
d) On expiry of Revival Period if the policy which has not acquired paid up status, has not 
been revived within the revival period; or 
e) On payment of free look cancellation amount; or 
f) In the event of forfeiture as specified in Condition 2 of Part D of this Policy Document. 
 
7. Free look period:  
During the Free Look period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical 
mode of Policy Document, whichever is earlier, by the Policyholder, if the Policyholder is not 
satisfied with the Terms and Conditions of the policy, he/she may return the policy to the 
Corporation stating the reason of objections. On receipt of the same, the Corporation shall 
cancel the policy and return the amount of premium deposited after deducting the proportionate 
risk premium [for Base Policy and Rider(s), if opted for] for the period of cover and charges for 
medical examinations(including special reports, if any) and for stamp duty. 
 
8. Option to take Death Benefit in instalments:  
This is an option to receive Death Benefit in instalments over the chosen period of 5  or 10 or 15 
years instead of lump sum amount under an in-force as well as paid-up policy. This option can 
be exercised by the Policyholder during minority of the Life Assured or by Life Assured aged 18 
years and above, during his/her lifetime; for full or part of Death benefits payable under the 
policy. The amount opted for by the Policyholder/Life Assured (ie. Net Claim Amount) can be 
either in absolute value or as a percentage of the total claim proceeds payable. 
 
The instalments shall be paid in advance at yearly or half-yearly or quarterly or monthly 
intervals, as opted for, subject to minimum instalment amount for different modes of payments 
being as under: 
 
Mode of Instalment payment
Minimum instalment amount
Monthly 
Rs.   5,000/- 
Quarterly 
Rs. 15,000/- 
Half-Yearly 
Rs. 25,000/- 
Yearly 
Rs. 50,000/- 
 
If the Net Claim Amount is less than the required amount to provide the minimum instalment 
amount as per the option exercised by the Policyholder/Life assured, the claim proceeds shall 
be paid in lump sum only. 
 
For all the instalment payment options commencing during the 12 months’ period from 1st May to 
30th April, the interest rate used to arrive at the amount of each instalment shall be annual 
effective rate not lower than the 10 year semi-annual G-Sec rate minus 2%; where, the 10 year 
semi-annual G-Sec rate shall be as at last trading day of previous financial year. 
 
Accordingly, for the 12 months’ period commencing from 1st May, 2024 to 30th April, 2025, the 
applicable interest rate for the calculation of the instalment amount shall be 5.07% p.a. effective. 
 


--- PAGE 17 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 17 of 28   
 
 
 
For exercising option to take Death Benefit in instalments, the Policyholder during minority of the 
Life Assured or the Life Assured, if major, can exercise this option during his/her lifetime while in 
currency of the policy, specifying the net claim amount for which the option is to be exercised. 
The death claim amount shall then be paid to the nominee as per the option exercised by the 
Policyholder/Life Assured and no alteration, whatsoever, shall be allowed to be made by the 
nominee. 
 
PART-E 
 
 
Not Applicable.  
 
 
 
PART- F: OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
1. a)  Assignments:   
Assignment is allowed under this plan as per Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as 
amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 38 are contained in Annexure-
1 of this Policy Document. The notice of assignment should be submitted for registration to 
the office of the Corporation, where the policy is serviced. 
 
b)  Nominations:  
Nomination by the holder of a policy of life assurance on his/her own life is allowed as per 
Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. The current provisions 
of Section 39 are contained in Annexure-2 of this Policy Document. The notice of nomination 
or change of nomination should be submitted for registration to the office of the Corporation, 
where the policy is serviced. In registering nomination, the Corporation does not accept any 
responsibility or express any opinion as to its validity or legal effect. 
 
2. Suicide Exclusion: Notwithstanding the provision of benefits payable on death mentioned 
anywhere in this Policy Document, the provisions related to claim payment in case of death due 
to Suicide shall be subject to the conditions as specified herein under: 
 
i. If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide at any time within 12 months 
from the date of commencement of risk, the Nominee or Beneficiary of the Life Assured shall 
be entitled to 80% of the total premiums paid till the date of death (excluding any taxes if 
collected explicitly, extra premium and rider premiums other than term assurance rider, if 
any), provided the policy is in-force. This clause shall not be applicable in case age at entry 
of the Life Assured is below 8 years. 
 
ii. If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide within 12 months from date of 
revival, an amount which is higher of 80% of the total premiums paid till the date of death 
(excluding any taxes if collected explicitly, extra premium and rider premiums other than 
term assurance rider, if any)   or the surrender value available as on date of death, shall be 
payable. The Nominee or Beneficiary of the Life Assured shall not be entitled to any other 
claim under the policy.  
 
This clause shall not be applicable: 
a) In case the age of the life assured is below 8 years at the time of revival; or  
b) For a policy lapsed without acquiring paid-up value and nothing shall be payable under 
such policies. 
 
Premiums referred above shall not include any taxes, extra premium and rider premium(s), if 
any. 
 
The relaxation mentioned under Non-forfeiture provisions shall not be applicable in case of 
death due to suicide. 
 
3. Tax:  
Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Government of India or any 
other constitutional tax Authority of India shall be as per the Tax laws and the rate of tax, as 
applicable from time to time. 


--- PAGE 18 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 18 of 28   
 
 
 
 
The amount of applicable taxes as per the prevailing rates shall be payable by the policyholder 
on premiums [for base policy and rider(s), if any] including extra premium(s) if any, which shall 
be collected separately over and above in addition to the premiums payable by the  
policyholder. The amount of tax paid shall not be considered for the calculation of any benefits 
payable under the plan. 
 
4. Normal requirements for a claim:  
(a) Death Claim: The normal documents which the claimant shall submit while lodging the 
claim in case of death of the Life Assured shall be claim forms, as prescribed by the 
Corporation, accompanied with original Policy Document, NEFT mandate from the claimant 
for direct credit of the claim amount to the bank account, proof of title, proof of death, 
medical treatment prior to the death (if any), school/college/employer’s certificate, 
whichever is applicable, to the satisfaction of the Corporation. If the age is not admitted 
under the policy, the proof of age of the Life Assured shall also be submitted.  
 
In case of unnatural death or death on account of or arising from an accident, the 
Corporation may call for the copies of First Information Report (FIR), Panchnama and Post 
Mortem report. The Corporation may also call for additional documents as may be required 
by them. 
 
(b) Policyholder or the claimant, as applicable, is required to intimate the Corporation, about 
the happening of the insured event resulting into a claim under the policy, at the earliest 
possible time. Survival Benefit/ Surrender Claim: Where the policy results in a Survival 
Benefit Claim or in case of surrender of the policy, the Life Assured shall submit the 
discharge form along with the original Policy Document, NEFT mandate from the claimant 
for direct credit of the claim amount to the bank account besides proof of age, if the age is 
not admitted earlier. 
 
In addition to above, any requirement mandated under any statutory provision or as may be 
required as per law shall also be required to be submitted. 
 
5. Legislative Changes:  
The Terms and Conditions including the premiums and benefits payable under this policy are 
subject to variation in accordance with the relevant Legislation & Regulations. 
 
6. Need Analysis:  
Your need analysis document under suitability assessment is enclosed to this Policy Document. 
 
7. Benefit Illustration:  
Your customized Benefit Illustration is enclosed to this Policy Document. 
 
8. Issuance of Duplicate Policy: 
The Policyholder can make an application for duplicate Policy on payment of policy preparation 
charges, policy stamp charges and applicable taxes, if any, which are specified from time to 
time* upon loss of policy document along with other requirements as may be prescribed by the 
Corporation .  
 
*As on January, 2024, the applicable duplicate policy preparation charge is Rs 75.00. In 
addition, Indemnity Bond notarized as per requisite stamp value is also required and the stamp 
fee for the same shall be borne by the Policyholder. 
 
9. Governing Law and Jurisdiction: 
The Policy shall be governed by the laws of India and the Indian Courts shall have jurisdiction 
to settle any disputes arising under the Policy. 
 
 
PART-G: STATUTORY PROVISIONS 
 
 
Section 45 of Insurance Act 1938: 


--- PAGE 19 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 19 of 28   
 
 
 
The provisions of the Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938, as amended from time to time, shall 
be applicable. The current provisions are contained in Annexure-3 of this Policy Document. 
 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism: 
 
Of the Corporation: 
The Corporation has Grievance Redressal Officers (GROs) at Branch/ Divisional/ Zonal/ Central 
Office to redress grievances of customers. The customers can visit our website 
(https://licindia.in/web/guest/grievances) for names and contact details of the GROs and other 
information related to grievances. 
 
 For ensuring quick redressal of customer grievances the Corporation has introduced Customer 
friendly Integrated Complaint Management System through our Customer Portal (website) which 
is http://www.licindia.in, where a registered policy holder can directly register complaint/ 
grievance 
and 
track 
its 
status. 
Customers 
can 
also 
contact 
at 
e-mail 
id 
co_complaints@licindia.com for redressal of any grievances. 
 
Claimants not satisfied with the decision of death claim repudiation have the option of referring 
their cases for review to Zonal Office Claims Dispute Redressal Committee or Central Office 
Claims Dispute Redressal Committee. A retired High Court/ District Court Judge is member of 
each of the Claims Dispute Redressal Committees. 
 
Of IRDAI:  
In case the customer is not satisfied with the response or does not receive a response from us 
within 15 days, then the customer may approach the Policyholder’s Protection and Grievance 
Redressal Department through any of the following modes: 
 Calling Toll Free Number 155255 / 18004254732 (i.e. IRDAI Grievance Call Centre - (BIMA 
BHAROSA SHIKAYAT NIVARAN KENDRA)) 
 Sending an email to complaints@irdai.gov.in 
 Register the complaint online at  https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/ 
 Address for sending the complaint through courier / letter: 
General Manager, Policyholders Protection and Grievance Redressal Department -, 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, Survey No. 115/1, Financial 
District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana. 
 
Of Ombudsman: 
For redressal of Claims related grievances, claimants can also approach Insurance 
Ombudsman who provides for low cost and speedy arbitration to customers. 
 
The Ombudsman, as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules, 2017, can receive and consider 
complaints or disputes relating to the matters such as: 
(a) Delay in settlement of claims, beyond the time specified in the regulations, framed under the 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India Act, 1999; 
(b) Any partial or total repudiation of claims by the life insurer, General insurer or the health 
insurer; 
(c) Disputes over premium paid or payable in terms of insurance policy; 
(d) Misrepresentation of policy terms and conditions at any time in the Policy Document or 
policy contract; 
(e) Legal construction of insurance policies in so far as the dispute relates to claim; 
(f) Policy servicing related grievances against insurers and their agents and intermediaries; 
(g) Issuance of life insurance policy, general insurance policy including health insurance policy 
which is not in conformity with the proposal form submitted by the proposer; 
(h) Non-issuance of insurance policy after receipt of premium in life insurance and general 
insurance including health insurance; and  
(i) Any other matter resulting from the violation of provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 or the 
regulations, circulars, guidelines or instructions issued by the IRDAI from time to time or the 
terms and conditions of the policy contract, in so far as they relate to issues mentioned at 
clauses (a) to (f). 
 
Note: In case of dispute in respect of interpretation of these terms and conditions mentioned in 
this document the English version shall stand valid. 


--- PAGE 20 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 20 of 28   
 
 
 
 
YOU ARE REQUESTED TO EXAMINE THIS POLICY, AND IF ANY MISTAKE BE FOUND 
THEREIN, RETURN IT IMMEDIATELY FOR CORRECTION. 
 
 


--- PAGE 21 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 21 of 28   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-1  
Assignment - As per Section 38 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time: 
 
(1) A transfer or assignment of a policy of insurance, wholly or in part, whether with or without 
consideration, may be made only by an endorsement upon the policy itself or by a separate 
instrument, signed in either case by the transferor or by the assignor or his duly authorised 
agent and attested by at least one witness, specifically setting forth the fact of transfer or 
assignment and the reasons thereof, the antecedents of the assignee and the terms on which 
the assignment is made. 
 
(2) An insurer may, accept the transfer or assignment, or decline to act upon any endorsement 
made under sub-section(1), where it has sufficient reason to believe that such transfer or 
assignment is not bonafide or is not in the interest of the policyholder or in public interest or is 
for the purpose of trading of insurance policy. 
 
(3) The insurer shall, before refusing to act upon the endorsement, record in writing the reasons for 
such refusal and communicate the same to the policyholder not later than thirty days from the 
date of the policy-holder giving notice of such transfer or assignment. 
 
(4) Any person aggrieved by the decision of an insurer to decline to act upon such transfer or 
assignment may within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of the communication 
from the insurer containing reasons for such refusal, prefer a claim to the Authority. 
 
(5) Subject to the provisions in sub-section (2), the transfer or assignment shall be complete and 
effectual upon the execution of such endorsement or instrument duly attested but except, where 
the transfer or assignment is in favour of the insurer, shall not be operative as against an 
insurer, and shall not confer upon the transferee or assignee, or his legal representative, any 
right to sue for the amount of such policy or the moneys secured thereby until a notice in writing 
of the transfer or assignment and either the said endorsement or instrument itself or a copy 
thereof certified to be correct by both transferor and transferee or their duly authorised agents 
have been delivered to the insurer: 
 
Provided that where the insurer maintains one or more places of business in India, such notice 
shall be delivered only at the place where the policy is being serviced. 
 
(6) The date on which the notice referred to in sub-section (5) is delivered to the insurer shall 
regulate the priority of all claims under a transfer or assignment as between persons interested 
in the policy; and where there is more than one instrument of transfer or assignment the priority 
of the claims under such instruments shall be governed by the order in which the notices 
referred to in sub-section (5) are delivered: 
 
Provided that if any dispute as to priority of payment arises as between assignees, the dispute 
shall be referred to the Authority. 
 
(7) Upon the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (5), the insurer shall record the fact of 
such transfer or assignment together with the date thereof and the name of the transferee or 
the assignee and shall, on the request of the person by whom the notice was given, or of  the 
transferee or assignee, on payment of such fee as may be specified by the regulations, grant a 
written acknowledgement of the receipt of such notice; and any such acknowledgement shall be 
conclusive evidence against the insurer that he has duly received the notice to which such 
acknowledgment relates. 
 
(8) Subject to the terms and conditions of the transfer or assignment, the insurer shall, from the 
date of the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (5), recognize the transferee or 
assignee named in the notice as the absolute transferee or assignee entitled to benefit under 
the policy, and such person shall be subject to all liabilities and equities to which the transferor 
or assignor was subject at the date of the transfer or assignment and may institute any 
proceedings in relation to the policy, obtain a loan under the policy or surrender the policy 


--- PAGE 22 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 22 of 28   
 
 
 
without obtaining the consent of the transferor or assignor or making him a party to such 
proceedings. 
 
Explanation – Except where the endorsement referred to in sub-section (1) expressly indicates 
that the assignment or transfer is conditional in terms of subsection (10) hereunder, every 
assignment or transfer shall be deemed to be an absolute assignment or transfer and the 
assignee or transferee, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be the absolute assignee or 
transferee respectively. 
 
(9) Any rights and remedies of an assignee or transferee of a policy of life insurance under an 
assignment or transfer effected prior to the commencement of the Insurance Laws 
(Amendment) Act, 2015 shall not be affected by the provisions of this section. 
 
(10) Notwithstanding any law or custom  having the force of  law to the contrary, an assignment in 
favour of a person made upon the condition that-  
 
a. The proceeds under the policy shall become payable to the policyholder or the nominee 
or nominees in the event of either the assignee or transferee predeceasing the insured; 
or 
 
 
b. The insured surviving the term of the policy , shall be valid: 
 
Provided that a conditional assignee shall not be entitled to obtain a loan on the policy or 
surrender a policy. 
 
(11) In the case of the partial assignment or transfer of a policy of insurance under sub-section (1), 
the liability of the insurer shall be limited to the amount secured by partial assignment or 
transfer and such policyholder shall not be entitled to further assign or transfer the residual 
amount payable under the same policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 23 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 23 of 28   
 
 
 
Annexure-2  
Nomination - As per Section 39 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time: 
 
1. The holder of a policy of life insurance on his own life may, when effecting the policy or at any 
time before the policy matures for payment, nominate the person or persons to whom the money 
secured by the policy shall be paid in the event of his death: 
 
Provided that, where any nominee is a minor, it shall be lawful for the policy holder to appoint 
any person in the manner laid down by the insurer, to receive the money secured by policy in 
the event of his death during the minority of the nominee. 
 
2. Any such nomination in order to be effectual shall, unless it is incorporated in the text of the 
policy itself, be made by an endorsement on the policy communicated to the insurer and 
registered by him in the records relating to the policy and any such nomination may at any time 
before the policy matures for payment be cancelled or changed by an endorsement or a further 
endorsement or a will, as the case may be, but unless notice in writing of any such cancellation 
or change has been delivered to the insurer, the insurer shall not be liable for any payment 
under the policy made bonafide by him to a nominee mentioned in the text of the policy or 
registered in records of the insurer. 
 
3. The insurer shall furnish to the policy holder a written acknowledgement of having registered a 
nomination or a cancellation or change thereof, and may charge such fee as may be specified 
by regulations for registering such cancellation or change. 
 
4. A transfer or assignment of a policy made in accordance with section 38 shall automatically 
cancel a nomination: 
 
Provided that the assignment of a policy to the insurer who bears the risk on the policy at the 
time of the assignment, in consideration of a loan granted by that insurer on the security of the 
policy within its surrender value, or its reassignment on repayment of the loan shall not cancel a 
nomination, but shall affect the rights of the nominee only to the extent of the insurer’s interest in 
the policy: 
 
Provided further that the transfer or assignment of a policy, whether wholly or in part, in 
consideration of a loan advanced by the transferee or assignee to the policyholder, shall not 
cancel the nomination but shall affect the rights of the nominee only to the extent of the interest 
of the transferee or assignee, as the case may be, in the policy: 
 
Provided also that the nomination, which has been automatically cancelled consequent upon the 
transfer or assignment, the same nomination shall stand automatically revived when the policy is 
reassigned by the assignee or retransferred by the transferee in favour of the policyholder on 
repayment of loan other than on a security of policy to the insurer. 
 
5. Where the policy matures for payment during the lifetime of the person whose life is insured or 
where the nominee or, if there are more nominees than one, all the nominees die before the 
policy matures for payment, the amount secured by the policy shall be payable to the 
policyholder or his heirs or legal representatives or the holder of a succession certificate, as the 
case may be. 
 
6. Where the nominee or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or nominees survive the 
person whose life is insured, the amount secured by the policy shall be payable to such survivor 
or survivors. 
 
7. Subject to the other provisions of this section, where the holder of a policy of insurance on his 
own life nominates his parents, or his spouse, or his children, or his spouse and children, or any 
of them, the nominee or nominees shall be beneficially entitled to the amount payable by the 
insurer to him or them under sub-section (6) unless it is proved that the holder of the policy, 
having regard to the nature of his title to the policy, could not have conferred any such beneficial 
title on the nominee. 
 


--- PAGE 24 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 24 of 28   
 
 
 
8. Subject as aforesaid, where the nominee, or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or 
nominees, to whom sub-section (7) applies, die after the person whose life is insured but before 
the amount secured by the policy is paid, the amount secured by the policy, or so much of the 
amount secured by the policy as represents the share of the nominee or nominees so dying (as 
the case may be), shall be payable to the heirs or legal representatives of the nominee or 
nominees or the holder of a succession certificate, as the case may be, and they shall be 
beneficially entitled to such amount. 
 
9. Nothing in sub-sections (7) and (8) shall operate to destroy or impede the right of any creditor to 
be paid out of the proceeds of any policy of life insurance. 
 
10. The provisions of sub-sections (7) and (8) shall apply to all policies of life insurance maturing for 
payment after the commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015. 
 
11. Where a policyholder dies after the maturity of the policy but the proceeds and benefit of his 
policy has not been made to him because of his death, in such a case, his nominee shall be 
entitled to the proceed and benefit of his policy. 
 
12. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any policy of life insurance to which section 6 of 
the Married Women’s Property Act, 1874, applies or has at any time applied: 
 
Provided that where a nomination made whether before or after the commencement of the 
Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, in favour of the wife of the person who has insured his 
life or of his wife and children or any of them is expressed, whether or not on the face of the 
policy, as being made under this section, the said section 6 shall be deemed not to apply or not 
to have applied to the policy. 


--- PAGE 25 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 25 of 28   
 
 
 
Annexure-3  
 
 
Section 45 as per the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time: 
 
1. No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry 
of three years from the date of the policy, i.e. from the date of issuance of the policy or the date 
of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, 
whichever is later.  
 
2. A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date 
of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy 
or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later on the ground of fraud:  
 
Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal 
representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which 
such decision is based. 
 
Explanation I.-For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression “fraud” means any of the 
following acts committed by the insured or by his agent, with the intent to deceive the insurer or 
to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance policy:-  
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not believe 
to be true;  
b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the fact;  
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and  
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent. 
 
Explanation II- Mere silence as to facts likely to affect the assessment of the risk by the insurer 
is not fraud, unless the circumstances of the case are such that regard being had to them, it is 
the duty of the insured or his agent, keeping silence to speak, or unless his silence is, in itself, 
equivalent to speak. 
 
3. Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance 
policy on the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the misstatement of or suppression of 
a material fact was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there was no deliberate 
intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of a material fact are 
within the knowledge of the insurer: 
 
Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the beneficiaries, in case the 
policyholder is not alive. 
 
Explanation – A person who solicits and negotiates a contract of insurance shall be deemed for 
the purpose of the formation of the contract, to be the agent of the insurer. 
 
4. A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date 
of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy 
or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that any statement of or 
suppression of a fact material to the expectancy of the life of the insured was incorrectly made in 
the proposal or other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider 
issued:  
 
Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal 
representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which 
such decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based:  
 
Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or 
suppression of a material fact, and not on the ground of fraud the premiums collected on the 
policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives or 
nominees or assignees of the insured within a period of ninety days from the date of such 
repudiation.  
 


--- PAGE 26 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 26 of 28   
 
 
 
Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, the misstatement of or suppression of fact 
shall not be considered material unless it has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the 
insurer, the onus is on the insurer to show that had the insurer been aware of the said fact no 
life insurance policy would have been issued to the insured. 
 
5. Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is 
entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the 
terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the life insured was 
incorrectly stated in the proposal.  
 


--- PAGE 27 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 27 of 28   
 
 
 
Annexure-4 
 
 
 
                       
Guaranteed Surrender Value Factors 
applicable for Premium 
Policy Year 
Factor 
1 
0.00% 
2 
30.00% 
3 
35.00% 
4 
50.00% 
5 
50.00% 
6 
50.00% 
7 
50.00% 
8 
51.48% 
9 
52.96% 
10 
54.44% 
11 
55.93% 
12 
57.41% 
13 
58.89% 
14 
60.37% 
15 
61.85% 
16 
63.33% 
17 
64.81% 
18 
66.30% 
19 
67.78% 
20 
69.26% 
21 
70.74% 
22 
72.22% 
23 
73.70% 
24 
75.19% 
25 
76.67% 
26 
78.15% 
27 
79.63% 
28 
81.11% 
29 
82.59% 
30 
84.07% 
31 
85.56% 
32 
87.04% 
33 
88.52% 
34 
90.00% 
35 & above 
90.00% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 28 ---
  
Policy Document-LIC’s Jeevan Utsav -512N363V02 
 
_Page 28 of 28   
 
 
 
Annexure-5 
 
 
 
Guaranteed Surrender Value Factors 
applicable for Guaranteed Additions 
Policy Year 
Factor 
1 
0.00% 
2 
0.00% 
3 
2.00% 
4 
3.03% 
5 
4.06% 
6 
5.09% 
7 
6.13% 
8 
7.16% 
9 
8.19% 
10 
9.22% 
11 
10.25% 
12 
11.28% 
13 
12.31% 
14 
13.34% 
15 
14.38% 
16 
15.41% 
17 
16.44% 
18 
17.47% 
19 
18.50% 
20 
19.53% 
21 
20.56% 
22 
21.59% 
23 
22.63% 
24 
23.66% 
25 
24.69% 
26 
25.72% 
27 
26.75% 
28 
27.78% 
29 
28.81% 
30 
29.84% 
31 
30.88% 
32 
31.91% 
33 
32.94% 
34 
33.97% 
35 & above 
35.00% 
 

