--- PAGE 1 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 1 of 15                  
 
 
LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA 
(Established by the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956) 
Registration Number: 512 
LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02) 
(A Non-Par, Non-Linked, Life, Individual, Pure Risk Plan) 
 
PART-A 
 
 
Ref: NB 
 
 
 
                                                                                (Address and e-mail id of Branch Office)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  
 
 
Dear Policyholder, 
 
Re: Your Policy No. _______________ 
 
We have pleasure in forwarding herewith the above Policy Document comprising of Part A to Part G alongwith Customer Information 
Sheet (CIS) and Customized Benefit Illustration, if any.  
 
We would also like to draw your kind attention to the information mentioned in the Schedule of the Policy and the benefits available under 
the Policy. 
 
Some of our plans have certain options (including Rider(s)) available under them. It is important that the options, if any, available under this 
plan and mentioned in the Policy Document are noted carefully as it will be helpful to you, in case you decide to exercise any of the 
available options. It is also essential to note that such options, if available and mentioned in the document of this plan has to be exercised in 
the right manner and during the stipulated time limit as prescribed herein. 
 
Free Look Period 
 
We would request you to go through the terms and conditions of the Policy and in case you disagree with  any of the terms and conditions, 
you may return the Policy within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical mode of the Policy Document , 
whichever is earlier, stating the reasons for your objections and disagreement. On receipt of the policy we shall cancel the same and the 
amount of Premium deposited by you shall be refunded to you after deducting the proportionate risk premium (for Base Policy and Rider(s), 
if any ) for the period of cover and charges for medical examination, (including special reports, if any) and for stamp duty. 
 
In case you have any Complaints/Grievance, you may approach the Branch Office on the address mentioned above or Grievance Redressal 
Officer/ Ombudsman, whose addresses are as under: 
 
 
Address of Grievance Redressal Officer: 
 
 
Address and contact details of Insurance Ombudsman: 
 
 
 
If you find any errors in this Policy Document, you may return this Policy for corrections. 
 
Thanking you. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
p. Chief/Sr. Branch Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Space for Name and Address of Policyholder 
Space for Address and e-mail id of Branch Office


--- PAGE 2 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 2 of 15                  
 
 
 
 
We would also like to draw your attention to the following aspects: 
 
1) Change of Address: In case you change your residence, kindly ensure that you inform the change in address to the servicing Branch Office. 
 
2) Assignment: Assignment should be in accordance with the provisions of Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to 
time. The current provisions of Section 38 are enclosed as Annexure-1 for reference. 
 
3) Nomination: Nomination should be in accordance with the provisions of Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to 
time. The current provisions of Section 39 are enclosed as Annexure-2 for reference. 
 
4) Policyholder or the claimant, as applicable, is required to intimate the Corporation, about the happening of the insured event resulting into a 
claim under the policy, at the earliest possible time  
 
5) The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time shall be applicable. The current provisions of the 
same are enclosed as Annexure-3. 
 
6) Various Sections of the Insurance Act, 1938, applicable to LIC to apply as amended from time to time. 
 
7) The approved version of Policy Document in respect of this plan is available on our website: www.licindia.in. 
 
8) Please avail LIC’s e-services. Visit our website: www.licindia.in to enable us to serve you better.  
 
9) For Customer Services, you can contact LIC call centre at +91-022 68276827 whose services are available 24*7 in English, Hindi and 8 
Regional Languages. 
 
These measures will enable us to serve you better. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 3 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 3 of 15                  
 
 
 
PREAMBLE 
 
THE LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA (hereinafter called “the Corporation”) having received a Proposal along with 
declaration and the First Premium from the Proposer (on his/her own life) named in the Schedule referred to herein below and the said 
Proposal and Declaration with the statements contained and referred to therein having been agreed to by the said Proposer and the 
Corporation as basis of this assurance do by this Policy agree, in consideration of and subject to the due receipt of the subsequent 
premiums (in case of Regular Premium and Limited Premium Payment policies) as set out in the Schedule, to pay the benefits, but 
without interest at the Branch Office of the Corporation where this Policy is serviced to the person or persons to whom the same is 
payable in terms of the said Schedule, on proof to the satisfaction of the Corporation of the benefits having become payable as set out in 
this Policy Document, of the title of the said person or persons claiming payment and of the correctness of the age of the Life Assured 
stated in the Proposal if not previously admitted. 
And it is hereby declared that this Policy of Assurance shall be subject to the Definitions, Benefits, Conditions related to Servicing 
Aspects, Other Terms And Conditions and Statutory Provisions printed in this policy and that the Schedule and every endorsement 
placed on the Policy by the Corporation shall be deemed part of the Policy.   
 
 


--- PAGE 4 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 4 of 15                  
 
                                       SCHEDULE 
DIVISIONAL OFFICE: 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
BRANCH OFFICE: 
 
 
 
Policy Number: 
 
UIN: 
 
Plan Number 
 
Policy Term: 
 
Whether Single Premium / Regular Premium / 
Limited Premium  payment opted for? 
 
Premium Payment Term: 
 
 
Date of Commencement of Policy: 
 
 
Date of Commencement of Risk: 
 
 
Date of Maturity: 
 
Proposal No: 
 
Date of Proposal: 
 
Date of issuance of policy: 
 
Basic Sum Assured (Rs): 
 
 
Death Benefit Option chosen:  
 
 
Single / Instalment premium for Base 
Policy (Rs.) 
 
 
Total Single / Instalment Premium (Rs) 
 
(Taxes, if any, as applicable from time to 
time are charged extra) 
 
Due date of Premium: 
 
 
Mode of payment of Premium: 
 
 
Due Date of Payment of Last  
Premium for Base Policy : 
 
 
Date of Birth of the Life Assured:: 
 
 
Age of the Life Assured: 
 
 
Whether Age admitted: 
 
 
Whether Option to take Death  
Benefit  in instalments taken? 
 
 
 
Details of Rider opted: 
   Sr. No. 
Rider Opted
UIN 
Date of Commencement 
 of Risk for Rider 
Rider Sum  
Assured 
Instalment 
Premium for  
Rider  
Due date of payment 
of last premium for 
Rider 
Date of 
expiry of  
Rider 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Condition of the rider opted and mentioned above is enclosed as endorsement to the policy. 
Unless otherwise stated, all dates described and used in this Schedule are in dd/mm/yyyy formats. 
Name, Gender and Address of the Proposer  
Name, Gender and Address of the Life Assured 
Details of Nominee(s) under Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 
Type of Nomination: 
Nominee(s) Name 
 
Nominee’s 
Age (in yrs) 
 
Percentage Share 
 
Relationship to the Life Assured
Appointee Name [in case the 
Nominee  is a minor] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Period during which premiums are  
payable in case of Regular and 
Limited premium payment
Till the stipulated due date of last premium or earlier death of the Life Assured. 
Dates when premiums are  payable   
Regular premium and Limited premium  
payment
On the stipulated due date in ……………….. 
 
  Signed on behalf of the Corporation at the above mentioned Branch Office, whose address and e-mail ID are given on the first 
page and to which all communications relating to the policy should be addressed. 
   Date: 
 
  
 
 Examined by: 
                                                                                   
 Form No.: 
 
 
 
 
 
                      Chief/ Sr. /Branch Manager 


--- PAGE 5 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 5 of 15                  
 
PART– B: DEFINITIONS 
 
The definitions of terms/words used in the Policy Document are as under: 
1. 
Age is the age last birthday of the Life Assured at the time of commencement of the policy. 
2. 
Appointee is the person to whom the proceeds/benefits secured under the Policy are payable if the benefit becomes payable to the 
nominee and nominee is minor as on the date of claim payment. 
3. 
Annualized Premium shall be the premium amount payable in a year  excluding the taxes , rider premiums, underwriting extra premiums 
and loadings for modal premiums, . 
4. 
Assignee is the person to whom the rights and benefits are transferred by virtue of an Assignment.  
5. 
Assignment is the process of transferring the rights and benefits to an “Assignee”. Assignment should be in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. 
6. 
Base Policy is that part of the Policy referring to basic benefit (benefits referred to in this Policy Document excluding benefits covered 
under Rider(s), if opted for). 
7. 
Basic Sum Assured means the amount specified in the Schedule as opted by the Policyholder at the time of taking the policy. 
8. 
Beneficiary/Claimant means the person(s)/entity who is/are entitled to receive benefits under this Policy. The Beneficiary to whom 
benefits are  payable is the Proposer or Life Assured or his Assignee under Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time 
to time or Nominee(s) under Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time or proved Executors or Administrators 
or other Legal Representatives who should take out representation to his/ her Estate or limited to the moneys payable under this Policy 
from any Court of any State or Territory of the Union of India, as applicable.  
9. 
Continued Insurability is the determination of insurability of Life Assured/Proposer on revival of policy with Rider(s) if opted for, to the 
satisfaction of the Corporation based on the information, documents and reports that are already available and any additional information 
in this regard if and as may be required in accordance with the Underwriting Policy of the Corporation at the time of revival. 
10. Corporation means the Life Insurance Corporation of India established under Section 3 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956. 
11. Date of commencement of policy is the start date of this Policy. 
12. Date of commencement of risk is the date on which the Corporation accepts the risk for insurance (cover) as evidenced in the Schedule 
of the policy.  
13. Date of issuance of policy is a date when a proposal after underwriting is accepted as a policy and this contract gets effected. 
14. Date of Maturity means the date specified in the Schedule on which the Policy Term expires. 
15. Death Benefit means the benefit, which is payable on death of the Life Assured as specified in Condition 1A of Part C of this Policy 
Document.  
16. Discharge form is the form to be filled by policyholder/claimant to claim the death benefit/refund under the policy. 
17. Due Date (applicable in case of Regular Premium / Limited Premium payment) means a fixed date on which the policy premium is 
due and payable by the policyholder. 
18. Endorsement means conditions attached/ affixed to this Policy incorporating any additions, amendments or modifications agreed to or 
issued by the Corporation. 
19. Extra premium means a charge due to underwriting decision, for any additional risk not provided for, in minimum contract premium. 
20. Free Look Period is the period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical mode of the Policy Document, whichever 
is earlier, by the Policyholder to review the terms and conditions of this policy and where the Policyholder disagrees to any of those terms 
and conditions, he/ she has the option to return this policy as detailed in Condition 7 of Part D of this Policy Document. 
21. Government Security (G-Sec) in this Policy Document refers to the tradeable instruments issued by Central Government for various 
durations, declared as benchmark securities corresponding to the stated tenors, by Reserve Bank of India. 
22. Grace period for other than single premium policies is the time granted by the insurer from the due date for the payment of premium, 
without any penalty or late fee, during which time the policy is considered to be in-force with the risk cover without any interruption as per 
the terms and conditions of the Policy. 
23. In-force policy means a policy in which all the due premiums have been paid and the premiums are not outstanding beyond grace period.  
24. IRDAI means Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India earlier called as Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority (IRDA). 
25. Lapse is the status of the Policy when due premium is not paid within the grace period. 
26. Life Assured is the person on whose life the insurance cover has been accepted. 
27. Maturity Benefit means the benefit, which is payable on maturity, as specified in Condition 1 B of Part C of this Policy Document. 
28. Material information shall mean all important, essential and relevant information and documents explicitly sought by the Corporation in 
the proposal form. 
 The information already known to the Policyholder/Life Assured/Proposer at the time of obtaining a policy which has a bearing on 
underwriting of the proposal /Policy submitted constitutes Material Information. 
29. Nomination is the process of nominating a person(s) who is(are)named as “Nominee(s)” in the proposal form or subsequently included/ 
changed by an endorsement. Nomination should be in accordance with provisions of Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended 
from time to time. 
30. Nominee(s) means the person(s) nominated by the Policyholder (who is also the Life Assured) under this Policy who is(are) authorised to 
receive the claim benefit payable under this Policy and to give a valid discharge to the Corporation on settlement of the claim. 
31. Non-par products means products where policies are not entitled for any share in surplus (profits) during the term of the policy.  
Under such non-par policies, the benefits payable on death or maturity are guaranteed and fixed as per the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
32. Option to take Death Benefit in instalments: Option to take Death Benefit in instalments, as specified in Condition 8 of Part D of this 
Policy Document, is an option available under this Policy, to receive Death Benefit in instalments instead of lumpsum amount over a 
period chosen by the Policyholder / Life Assured. 
33. Policy Anniversary means one year from the date of commencement of the Policy and the same date falling each year thereafter, till the 
Date of Maturity. 
34. Policy/ Policy Document means this document along with endorsements, if any, issued by the Corporation which is a legal contract 
between the Policyholder and the Corporation. 
35. Policyholder is the legal owner of this policy. 
36. Policy term is the period, in years, as chosen by the policyholder and mentioned in the Schedule, commencing from the Date of 
commencement of policy and ending on the Date of Maturity. 


--- PAGE 6 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 6 of 15                  
 
37. Policy year is the period between two consecutive policy anniversaries. This period includes the first day and excludes the next policy 
anniversary day. 
38. Premium is the contractual amount payable by the Policyholder either as a Single Premium or at specified times periodically as mentioned 
in the Schedule of this Policy Document to secure the benefits under the policy. The premium payable will be “Total Single / Instalment 
Premium” which includes 
 
Single / Instalment Premium for Base Policy and 
 
 Instalment Premium for Rider(s), if rider(s) has been opted for. 
The term ‘Premium’ used anywhere in this Policy Document does not include any taxes which are payable separately. 
39. Premium Paying Term means the period, in years, during which premium is payable. 
40. Proposer is a person who proposes the life insurance proposal. 
41. Pure risk products means insurance products (without any savings element) where the payment of agreed amount is assured on the 
happening of death of the life assured within the term of the policy. 
42. Revival of a policy means restoration of the policy which was discontinued due to then non-payment of premium, by the insurer with all 
the benefits mentioned in the Policy Document, with or without rider benefits if any, upon the receipt of all the premium due and other 
charges or late fee, if any, during the revival period as per the terms and conditions of the policy, upon being satisfied as to the Continued 
Insurability of the Life Assured. 
43. Revival Period means the period of five consecutive complete years from the date of First Unpaid Premium during which period the 
policyholder is entitled to revive the policy which was discontinued due to the non-payment of premium. 
44. Rider means the insurance cover(s) added to a base policy for additional premium or charge. 
45. Rider Benefits means an amount of benefit payable on occurrence of a specified event covered  under the Rider and is an additional  
benefit to the benefit under Base Policy. 
46. Rider Premium is the premium payable by the Policyholder along with the premium under Base Policy towards the additional 
cover/benefit opted under the rider, if opted. 
47. Rider Sum Assured is the assured amount payable on happening of a specified event covered under the Rider, if opted. 
48. Schedule is the part of Policy Document that gives the specific details of your policy.  
49. Sum Assured on Death means an absolute amount of benefit which is guaranteed to become payable on death of life assured in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy as mentioned in Condition 1.A of Part C of this Policy Document. 
50. Single Premium shall be the premium amount payable excluding taxes, rider premiums and underwriting extra premiums. 
51. Surrender means complete withdrawal or termination of the entire policy. 
52. Surrender Value means an amount, if any, that becomes payable on  surrender of a policy during its term in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
53. Total Premiums Paid means the total of all premiums paid under the base product,  excluding any extra premium, and taxes, if collected 
explicitly.  
54. Underwriting is the term used to describe the process of assessing risk and ensuring that the cost of the cover is proportionate to the risks 
faced by the individual concerned. Based on underwriting, a decision on acceptance or rejection of cover as well as applicability of 
suitable premium or modified terms, if any, is taken.  
55. UIN means the Unique Identification Number allotted to this plan by the IRDAI. 
 
 
 
PART– C: BENEFITS 
 
1. The following benefits are payable under an in-force policy: 
 
A) Death Benefit:  
Death benefit payable on death of the Life Assured, during the policy term after the date of commencement of risk, but before the 
stipulated Date of Maturity provided the policy is in-force shall be “Sum Assured on Death”.  
 
For Regular premium and Limited premium payment policy, “Sum Assured on Death” is defined as the highest of: 
 7 times of Annualised Premium; or 
 105% of “Total Premiums Paid” upto the date of death; or  
 Absolute amount assured to be paid on death. 
 
For Single premium policy, “Sum Assured on Death” is defined as the higher of: 
 125% of Single Premium. 
 Absolute amount assured to be paid on death. 
  
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death shall depend on Death Benefit Option chosen at the time of taking this policy and is as 
under: 
Option I: Level Sum Assured 
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death shall be an amount equal to Basic Sum Assured, which shall remain the same 
throughout the policy term. 
 
Option II: Increasing Sum Assured 
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death shall remain equal to Basic Sum Assured till completion of fifth policy year. Thereafter, 
it increases by 10% of Basic Sum Assured each year from the sixth policy year till fifteenth policy year till it becomes twice the Basic 
Sum Assured. This increase will continue under an in-force policy till the end of policy term; or till the Date of Death; or till the 
fifteenth policy year, whichever is earlier. From sixteenth policy year and onwards, the Absolute amount assured to be paid on death 
remains constant i.e. twice the Basic Sum Assured till the policy term ends. 
 
For example, Absolute amount assured to be paid on death under a policy with Basic Sum Assured of Rs. X will be Rs. X till the end 
of fifth policy year, Rs. 1.1X during the sixth policy year, 1.2X during seventh policy year, increasing so on by 10% of Basic Sum 


--- PAGE 7 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 7 of 15                  
 
Assured each year till it becomes 2X in fifteenth policy year. From sixteenth policy year and onwards, the Absolute amount assured to 
be paid on death will be 2X. 
 
The Death Benefit Option once chosen cannot be changed later and is as mentioned in the Schedule. 
 
The Death Benefit shall be paid in lump sum as specified above and/or in instalments, as specified in Condition 8 of Part D of this 
Policy Document, as per the option exercised by the Life Assured. 
 
B) Maturity Benefit: 
  No Maturity Benefit shall be payable on the Life Assured surviving the stipulated Date of Maturity. 
 
2. Rider Benefits:  
The following optional rider (or amended versions of this) shall be available on payment of additional premium: 
 
LIC’s Accident Benefit Rider  is available as an Optional Rider under Regular Premium and Limited Premium payment policies only. 
Under an in-force policy, this rider can be opted for at any time during the Premium Paying Term of the Base Policy, provided the 
outstanding Premium Paying Term of the Base Policy is atleast five years. The cover under this Rider shall be available during the 
Premium Paying Term only or upto the policy anniversary on which the age nearer birthday of the life assured is 70 years, whichever is 
earlier.  
 
 
Conditions of the Rider, if opted, is enclosed as endorsement to this policy. 
 
3. Payment of Premiums (Applicable in case of Limited and Regular Premium payment policies only):   
(a) The policyholder has to pay the Premium on the due dates as specified in the Schedule of this Policy Document along with applicable 
taxes, if any, from time to time. 
  
(b) In case of death of Life Assured under an in-force policy wherein all the premiums due till the date of death have been paid and 
where the mode of payment of premium is other than yearly, balance premium(s), if any, falling due from the date of death and before 
the next policy anniversary shall be deducted from the claim amount. 
 
The Corporation does not have any obligation to issue a notice that premium is due or for the amount that is due. 
 
4. Grace Period (Applicable in case of Limited and Regular Premium payment policies only):   
A grace period of 30 days shall be allowed for payment of yearly or half yearly premiums from the date of First unpaid premium. If the 
premium is not paid before the expiry of the days of grace, the Policy lapses.   
 
If the death of the Life Assured occurs within the grace period but before the payment of the premium then due, the policy will still be 
valid and the benefits shall be paid after deductions of the said unpaid premium as also the balance premium(s), if any, falling due from 
the date of death and before the next policy anniversary. 
 
The above grace period will also apply to Rider premiums which are payable along with premium for Base Policy. 
 
 
PART – D: CONDITIONS RELATED TO SERVICING ASPECTS 
 
1. Proof of Age:  
The Premium payable under the Base Policy and Premium for Optional Riders have been calculated on the age of the Life Assured as 
declared in the Proposal Form.   
  
In case, the age of Life Assured is mis-stated in the Proposal Form and correct age is found to be different (higher or lower) than such age, 
without prejudice to the Corporation’s other rights and remedies, including the provisions under Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from 
time to time, Corporation shall check the eligibility of Life Assured based on the correct age as on the date of commencement of policy 
and the following action shall be taken:  
  
If the Life Assured remains eligible for Base Policy and Rider(s) opted, if any:   
  
Subject to the then existing underwriting norms, the premium for the Base Policy and Rider(s) opted, if any, shall be  recalculated on the 
Basic Sum Assured and Rider(s) Sum Assured respectively for the correct age and the revised premium(s) shall be payable by the 
policyholder under the Base Policy and Rider(s). Further, accumulated difference between the premiums for the correct age and the 
original premiums, from the commencement of the Base Policy / Rider upto the date of payment of revised premium shall be paid to the 
Corporation with interest at such rate as fixed by the Corporation from time to time.  Any outstanding premium and/or interest, if unpaid 
the same shall be recoverable from any claim proceeds payable under the policy.   
  
If the correct age is found to be lower than the declared age, excess Premium for Base Policy and Rider(s) premium collected shall be 
refunded without interest.  
  
If the Life Assured is ineligible for Base Policy:  
  
Base Policy along with opted Rider(s) shall be cancelled and the Premiums paid towards Base Policy and Rider(s), if any, shall be 
refunded without interest subject to deduction of all applicable expenses like proportionate risk premium (for Base Policy and Rider(s), if 


--- PAGE 8 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 8 of 15                  
 
any) for the period of cover, applicable taxes and charges for medical examination, special reports, if any and stamp duty, incurred under 
the policy. The policy shall terminate on said payment.  
 
  
If Life Assured is eligible for Base Policy but ineligible for any of the opted Riders:  
  
Such Rider(s) shall be cancelled and the Premiums paid in respect of such Rider(s) shall be refunded without interest, subject to deduction 
of all applicable expenses like proportionate risk premium for Rider(s) for the period of cover, applicable taxes and charges for medical 
examination, special reports, if any and stamp duty, incurred in respect of the Rider(s). The respective Rider(s) shall terminate on said 
payment. However, the Base Policy shall continue with the altered terms.   
 
2. Forfeiture and Non-forfeiture Regulations: 
Forfeiture Regulations: 
 
i. In case of Regular Premium and Limited Premium payment policies, if the premium has not been paid in respect of this policy and 
any subsequent premium be not duly paid, all the benefits shall cease after the expiry of grace period from the date of First Unpaid 
Premium and nothing shall be payable, and the Premiums paid thitherto are also not refundable. 
 
ii. Forfeiture in Certain Other Events: In case any condition herein contained or endorsed hereon be contravened or in case it is found 
that any untrue or incorrect statement is contained in the proposal, personal statement, declaration and connected documents or any 
material information is withheld, then and in every such case this policy shall be void and all claims to any benefit in virtue of this 
policy shall be subject to the provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act , 1938, as amended from time to time. 
 
Non –forfeiture Regulations: 
 
Not applicable as there is no Paid-up Value available under this plan. 
 
3. Revival of lapsed Policies (Applicable for Regular and Limited Premium payment policies ): 
An Insurance Policy would lapse on  non-payment of due premium within the days of grace. A policy in lapsed condition may be revived 
during the life time of the Life Assured, but within the Revival Period and before the Date of Maturity. The revival shall be effected on 
payment of all the arrears of premium(s) together with interest (compounding half yearly) at such rate as may be fixed by the Corporation 
from time to time and on satisfaction of Continued Insurability of the Life Assured on the basis of information, documents and reports that 
are already available and any additional information in this regard if and as may be required in accordance with the Underwriting Policy of 
the Corporation at the time of revival, being furnished by the Policyholder/Life Assured..  
 
The Corporation, however, reserves the right to accept at original terms, accept with modified terms or decline the revival of a 
discontinued policy. The revival of the discontinued policy shall take effect only after the same is approved, accepted and revival receipt is 
issued by the Corporation 
 
The rate of interest applicable for revival under this  product for every 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April shall not exceed 10 
year G-Sec Rate yield  compounding half yearly as at the last trading day of previous financial year plus 3 % or the yield earned on the 
Corporation’s Non-Linked Non-Participating Fund plus 1%, whichever is higher. For the 12 months’ period commencing from 1st May, 
2024 to 30th April, 2025, the applicable interest rate shall be 9.50 % p.a. compounding half yearly. The basis for determination of interest 
rate for policy revival is subject to change. 
 
If a lapsed policy is not revived within the revival period but before the Date of Maturity, the policy will automatically terminate. In case 
of Regular Premium policies, nothing shall be payable. However, in case of Limited Premium Payment policies, an  amount equal to 
Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, shall be payable and the policy will terminate. 
 
Revival of Rider, if opted for, will only be considered along with the revival of the Base Policy and not in isolation. 
 
4. Surrender:  
A. No surrender value will be available under this Plan.  
 
B. 
However, in the following cases (for both Level Sum Assured (Option I) as well as Increasing Sum Assured (Option II)), on receipt 
of request for surrender of policy by the policyholder, an amount equal to Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, shall be payable as 
under: 
 
a) 
Regular Premium policies: Nothing shall be payable. 
 
 
b) 
Single Premium Policies:: 
 
In case of Single Premium Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any,  shall be payable on surrender of the policy anytime during the 
Policy Term. The Unexpired Risk Premium Value shall be calculated by using the following formula:  
 
K * (100 – R) % * [(n - t) / n] * Ps * (Basic Sum Assured /1000)  
 
Where;  
K = 75%  during 1st policy year 
            80%  during 2nd policy year 


--- PAGE 9 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 9 of 15                  
 
85%  during 3rd policy year 
90%  thereafter 
R = High Sum Assured rebate applied to the original policy at inception  
n = Original Policy Term 
t = Policy year from inception during which the policy is surrendered 
Ps  = Tabular single premium per Rs. 1000/- Basic Sum Assured for the original single premium policy for original policy term 
n years 
 
c) 
Limited Premium Payment:     
 
In case of Limited Premium payment, Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any shall only be payable if full premiums have been 
paid for at least: 
i) Two consecutive years in case of Premium Paying Term less than 10 years. 
ii) Three consecutive years in case of Premium Paying Term of 10 years or more. 
 
In case of surrender of an in-force policy, Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, shall be payable and policy shall terminate. 
 
In case of a lapsed policy, Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, shall be payable on the earliest occurrence of following and the 
policy shall terminate:  
- 
On death of the Life Assured during the revival period, or 
- 
On surrender of the policy during the revival period, or 
- 
On expiry of the revival period, if the policy is not revived. 
 
The amount of Unexpired Risk Premium Value payable shall be calculated by using the following formula:  
 
During Premium Paying Term 
 
75% * (100 – R) % * d * (Pppt – Pn) * (Basic Sum Assured /1000) 
 
 
After Premium Paying Term 
 
i) If all due premiums have been paid: 
 
75% * (100 – R) % * ppt * (Pppt – Pn) * [(n - t) / (n-ppt)] * (Basic Sum Assured /1000) 
 
ii) If all due premiums have not been paid: 
 
75% * (100 – R) % * d * (Pppt – Pn) * (Basic Sum Assured /1000) 
 
Where, 
R = High Sum Assured rebate applied to the original policy at inception 
t = Policy year from inception during which the policy is surrendered (in case of fully paid up policies) 
d = Number of full years for which premiums have been paid 
ppt= Premium Paying Term of the original Policy  
Pppt = Tabular annual premium per Rs. 1000/- Basic Sum Assured in respect of the original policy i.e. based on the life assured’s 
age at entry, original policy term and premium paying term 
Pn = Tabular annual premium per Rs. 1000/- Basic Sum Assured for regular premium policy corresponding to the life assured’s 
age at entry and original policy term n years 
 
The premium mentioned above is exclusive of taxes, rider premium and underwriting extra, if any.  
 The above calculated amount of Unexpired Risk Premium Value is payable only if it is positive; and if negative, nothing shall be 
recovered from the policyholder. 
 
 
No surrender value will be available on Rider(s), if any.  
 
5. Policy Loan:  
No loan will be available under this policy 
 
6. Termination of Policy: 
The policy shall immediately and automatically terminate on the earliest occurrence of any of the following events: 
a) 
The date on which lump sum death benefit / final instalment of death benefit is paid; or 
b) 
The date on which Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, is settled, in case of surrender of policy ; or  
c) 
The date of maturity; or 
d) 
On expiry of Revival Period, if the policy has not been revived within the revival period; or  
e) 
On payment of free look cancellation amount;or. 
f) 
In the event of forfeiture as specified in Condition 2 of Part D of this Policy Document. 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 10 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 10 of 15                  
 
7. Free look period:  
During the Free Look Period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical mode of Policy Document, whichever is 
earlier, by the Policyholder, if the Policyholder is not satisfied with the “Terms and Conditions” of the policy, he/she may return the 
policy to the Corporation stating the reasons for objections. On receipt of the same, the Corporation shall cancel the policy and return 
the amount of premium deposited after deducting the proportionate risk premium (for Base Policy and Rider(s), if opted for ) for the 
period of cover, expenses incurred on medical examination, (including special reports, if any), and  stamp duty charges.  
8. Option to take Death Benefit in instalments:  
This is an option to receive Death Benefit in instalments over the chosen period of 5 or 10 or 15 years instead of lump sum amount 
under an in-force policy. This option can be exercised only by the Life Assured during his/her lifetime, for full or part of the Death 
proceeds payable under the policy. The amount opted by the Life Assured (i.e. Net Claim Amount) can be either in absolute value or as 
a percentage of the total claim proceeds payable. 
 
The instalments shall be paid in advance at yearly or half-yearly or quarterly or monthly intervals, as opted for, subject to minimum 
instalment amount for different modes of payments being as under: 
 
Mode of Instalment payment 
Minimum instalment amount 
Monthly 
Rs. 5,000/- 
Quarterly 
Rs. 15,000/- 
Half-Yearly 
Rs. 25,000/- 
Yearly 
Rs. 50,000/- 
 
If the Net Claim Amount is less than the required amount to provide the minimum instalment amount as per the option exercised by the 
Life Assured, the claim proceeds shall be paid in lump sum only. 
 
For all the instalment payment options commencing during the 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April, the interest rate used to 
arrive at the amount of each instalment shall be annual effective rate not lower than the 10 year semi-annual G-Sec yield   minus 2 %; 
where, the 10 year semi-annual G-Sec yield  shall be as at last trading day of previous financial year. 
 
Accordingly, for the 12 months period commencing from 1st May, 2024 to 30th April, 2025, the applicable interest rate for the 
calculation of the instalment amount shall be 5.07% p.a. effective. 
 
For exercising option to take Death Benefit in instalments, the Life Assured can exercise this option during his/her lifetime while in 
currency of the policy, specifying the period of Instalment payment and Net Claim Amount for which the option is to be exercised. The 
death claim amount shall then be paid to the nominee as per the option exercised by the Life Assured and no alteration whatsoever shall 
be allowed to be made by the nominee. 
 
 
PART E 
 
Not Applicable. 
 
PART – F: OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
1. 
a) Assignments:  
Assignment is allowed under this plan as per section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. The current 
provisions of Section 38 are contained in Annexure-1 of this Policy Document. The notice of assignment should be submitted for 
registration to the office of the Corporation, where the policy is serviced. 
 
b) Nominations:  
Nomination by the holder of a policy of life assurance on his/her own life is allowed as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as 
amended from time to time.The current provisions of Section 39 are contained in Annexure-2 of this Policy Document. The notice 
of nomination or change of nomination should be submitted for registration to the office of the Corporation, where the policy is 
serviced. In registering nomination the Corporation does not accept any responsibility or express any opinion as to its validity or 
legal effect. 
 
2. 
Suicide Exclusion: 
Notwithstanding the provision of benefits payable on death mentioned anywhere in this Policy Document, the provisions related to 
claim payment in case of death due to suicide shall be subject to the conditions as specified herein under: 
 
Under Regular /Limited Premium Payment policy: 
 
If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk or 
from the date of revival of the policy, as applicable, the Nominee or Beneficiary of the Life Assured shall be entitled to 80% of the total 
premiums paid till the date of death provided the policy is in force.  
 
This clause shall not be applicable for a lapsed policy as nothing is payable under such policies. 
 
Under Single Premium policy:  
 
If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk, the 


--- PAGE 11 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 11 of 15                  
 
Nominee or Beneficiary of the Life Assured shall be entitled to 80% of the Single Premium paid. 
 
Premiums referred above shall not include any taxes, extra premium and Rider premium(s), if any. 
 
3. 
Tax:  
Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Government of India or any other constitutional tax Authority of India 
shall be as per the Tax laws and the rate of tax as applicable from time to time. 
 
 
The amount of applicable taxes as per the prevailing rates, shall be payable by the policyholder on premiums (for Base Policy and 
Rider(s), if any) including extra premium(s) if any , which shall be collected separately over and above in addition to the premiums 
payable by the  policyholder. The amount of tax paid shall not be considered for the calculation of any benefits payable under the plan. 
 
4. 
Normal requirements for a claim:  
(a) Death Claim: The normal documents which the claimant shall submit while lodging the claim in case of death of the Life Assured 
shall be claim forms, as prescribed by the Corporation, accompanied with original Policy Document, NEFT mandate from the 
claimant for direct credit of the claim amount to the bank account, proof of title, proof of death, medical treatment prior to the 
death (if any), school/ college/ employer's certificate, whichever is applicable, to the satisfaction of the Corporation. If the age is 
not admitted under the policy, the proof of age of the Life assured shall also be submitted. 
 
In case of unnatural death or death on account of or arising from an accident, the Corporation may call for the copies of First 
Information Report (FIR), Panchnama and Post Mortem report. The Corporation may also call for additional documents as may be 
required by them.  
 
Policyholder or the claimant, as applicable, is required to intimate the Corporation, about the happening of the insured event 
resulting into a claim under the policy, at the earliest possible time.  
 
(b) Surrender Claim: In case of surrender of the policy, the Life Assured shall submit the discharge form along with the original 
policy document, NEFT mandate from the claimant for direct credit of the claim amount to the bank account besides proof of age, 
if the age is not admitted earlier. 
 
In addition to above, any requirement mandated under any statutory provision or as may be required as per law shall also be required to 
be submitted. 
 
5. 
Legislative Changes:  
The Terms and Conditions including the premiums and benefits payable under this policy are subject to variation in accordance with the 
relevant Legislation & Regulations. 
 
6. 
Benefit illustration: Your customized Benefit Illustration, if applicable, is enclosed to this Policy document. 
 
7. 
Issuance of Duplicate Policy:  
The Policyholder can make an application for duplicate Policy on payment of policy preparation charges, policy stamp charges and 
applicable taxes, if any, which are specified from time to time* upon loss of Policy Document along with other requirements as may be 
prescribed by the Corporation .  
 
*As on January, 2024, the applicable duplicate policy preparation charge is Rs 75.00. In addition, Indemnity Bond notarized as per 
requisite stamp value is also required and the stamp fee for the same shall be borne by the Policyholder. 
 
8. 
Governing Law and Jurisdiction: 
The Policy shall be governed by the laws of India and the Indian Courts shall have jurisdiction to settle any disputes arising under the 
Policy 
 
 
PART – G: STATUTORY PROVISIONS 
 
Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938: 
The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938, as amended from time to time, shall be applicable. The current provisions are 
contained in Annexure-3 of this Policy Document. 
 
 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism: 
Of the Corporation:  
The Corporation has Grievance Redressal Officers (GROs) at Branch/ Divisional/ Zonal/ Central Office to redress grievances of 
customers. The customers can visit our website (https://licindia.in/web/guest/grievances) for names and contact details of the GROs and 
other information related to grievances. For ensuring quick redressal of customer grievances the Corporation has introduced Customer 
friendly Integrated Complaint Management System through our Customer Portal (website)  http://www.licindia.in, where a registered 
policy holder can directly register complaint/ grievance and track its status. Customers can also contact at e-mail id 
co_complaints@licindia.com for redressal of any grievances. 
 
Claimants not satisfied with the decision of death claim repudiation have the option of referring their cases for review to Zonal Office 
Claims Dispute Redressal Committee or Central Office Claims Dispute Redressal Committee. A retired High Court/ District Court 
Judge is member of each of the Claims Dispute Redressal Committees. 
 
Of IRDAI:  


--- PAGE 12 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 12 of 15                  
 
In case the customer is not satisfied with the response or does not receive a response from us within 15 days, then the customer may 
approach the Policyholder’s Protection and Grievance Redressal Department through any of the following modes: 
 
 
Calling Toll Free Number 155255 / 18004254732 (i.e. IRDAI Grievance Call Centre-(BIMA BHAROSA SHIKAYAT 
NIVARAN KENDRA)) 
 
Sending an email to complaints@irdai.gov.in 
 
Register the complaint online at https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/ 
 
Address for sending the complaint through courier / letter: 
 General Manager, Policyholders Protection and Grievance Redressal Department, Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India, Survey No.115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda,  Gachibowli, Hyderabad-500032, Telangana.  
       
Of Ombudsman: 
For redressal of Claims related grievances, claimants can also approach Insurance Ombudsman who provides for low cost and speedy 
arbitration to customers. 
 
 
The Ombudsman, as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules, 2017, can receive and consider complaints or disputes relating to the matters such 
as:  
 
 
(a) Delay in settlement of claims, beyond the time specified in the regulations, framed under the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India Act,1999 
(b) Any partial or total repudiation of claims by the life insurer, General insurer or the health insurer; 
(c) Disputes over premium paid or payable in terms of insurance policy; 
(d) Misrepresentation of policy terms and conditions at any time in the Policy Document or policy contract; 
(e) Legal construction of insurance policies in so far as the dispute relates to claim; 
(f) Policy servicing related grievances against insurers and their agents and intermediaries; 
(g) Issuance of life insurance policy, general insurance policy including health insurance policy which is not in conformity with the 
proposal form submitted by the proposer; 
(h) Non-issuance of insurance policy after receipt of premium in life insurance and general insurance including health insurance; and   
(i) Any other matter resulting from the violation of provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 or the regulations, circulars , guidelines or 
instructions issued by IRDAI from time to time or the terms and conditions of the policy contract, in so far as they relate to issues 
mentioned at clauses (a) to (f) 
 
Note: In case of dispute in respect of interpretation of these terms and conditions mentioned in this Document, the English version shall 
stand valid. 
 
YOU ARE REQUESTED TO EXAMINE THIS POLICY, AND IF ANY MISTAKE BE FOUND THEREIN, RETURN IT 
IMMEDIATELY FOR CORRECTION. 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 13 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 13 of 15                  
 
                                  Annexure 1  
 
Assignment - As per Section 38 of the Insurance Act 1938,  
 
(1) A transfer or assignment of a policy of insurance, wholly or in part, whether with or without consideration, may be made only by an 
endorsement upon the policy itself or by a separate instrument, signed in either case by the transferor or by the assignor or his duly 
authorized agent and attested by at least one witness, specifically setting forth the fact of transfer or assignment and the reasons thereof, 
the antecedents of the assignee and the terms on which the assignment is made. 
 
(2) An insurer may, accept the transfer or assignment, or decline to act upon any endorsement made under sub-section(1), where it has 
sufficient reason to believe that such transfer or assignment is not bonafide or is not in the interest of the policyholder or in public 
interest or is for the purpose of trading of insurance policy. 
 
(3) The insurer shall, before refusing to act upon the endorsement, record in writing the reasons for such refusal and communicate the 
same to the policyholder not later than thirty days from the date of the policy-holder giving notice of such transfer or assignment. 
 
(4) Any person aggrieved by the decision of an insurer to decline to act upon such transfer or assignment may within a period of thirty 
days from the date of receipt of the communication from the insurer containing reasons for such refusal, prefer a claim to the Authority. 
 
(5) Subject to the provisions in sub-section (2), the transfer or assignment shall be complete and effectual upon the execution of such 
endorsement or instrument duly attested but except, where the transfer or assignment is in favour of the insurer, shall not be operative as 
against an insurer, and shall not confer upon the transferee or assignee, or his legal representative, any right to sue for the amount of 
such policy or the moneys secured thereby until a notice in writing of the transfer or assignment and either the said endorsement or 
instrument itself or a copy thereof certified to be correct by both transferor and transferee or their duly authorised agents have been 
delivered to the insurer: 
 
Provided that where the insurer maintains one or more places of business in India, such notice shall be delivered only at the place where 
the policy is being serviced. 
 
(6) The date on which the notice referred to in sub-section (5) is delivered to the insurer shall regulate the priority of all claims under a 
transfer or assignment as between persons interested in the policy; and where there is more than one instrument of transfer or 
assignment the priority of the claims under such instruments shall be governed by the order in which the notices referred to in sub-
section (5) are delivered: 
 
Provided that if any dispute as to priority of payment arises as between assignees, the dispute shall be referred to the Authority. 
 
(7) Upon the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (5), the insurer shall record the fact of such transfer or assignment together 
with the date thereof and the name of the transferee or the assignee and shall, on the request of the person by whom the notice was 
given, or of  the transferee or assignee, on payment of such fee as may be specified by the regulations, grant a written acknowledgement 
of the receipt of such notice; and any such acknowledgement shall be conclusive evidence against the insurer that he has duly received 
the notice to which such acknowledgment relates. 
 
(8) Subject to the terms and conditions of the transfer or assignment, the insurer shall, from the date of the receipt of the notice referred 
to in sub-section (5), recognize the transferee or assignee named in the notice as the absolute transferee or assignee entitled to benefit 
under the policy, and such person shall be subject to all liabilities and equities to which the transferor or assignor was subject at the date 
of the transfer or assignment and may institute any proceedings in relation to the policy, obtain a loan under the policy or surrender the 
policy without obtaining the consent of the transferor or assignor or making him a party to such proceedings. 
 
Explanation – Except where the endorsement referred to in sub-section (1) expressly indicates that the assignment or transfer is 
conditional in terms of subsection (10) hereunder, every assignment or transfer shall be deemed to be an absolute assignment or transfer 
and the assignee or transferee, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be the absolute assignee or transferee respectively. 
 
(9) Any rights and remedies of an assignee or transferee of a policy of life insurance under an assignment or transfer effected prior to the 
commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 shall not be affected by the provisions of this section. 
 
(10) Notwithstanding any law or custom  having the force of  law to the contrary, an assignment in favour of a person made upon the 
condition that-  
 
a. 
The proceeds under the policy shall become payable to the policyholder or the nominee or nominees in the event of either the 
assignee or transferee predeceasing the insured; or 
 
 
b. 
The insured surviving the term of the policy , shall be valid: 
 
Provided that a conditional assignee shall not be entitled to obtain a loan on the policy or surrender a policy. 
 
(11) In the case of the partial assignment or transfer of a policy of insurance under sub-section (1), the liability of the insurer shall be 
limited to the amount secured by partial assignment or transfer and such policyholder shall not be entitled to further assign or transfer 
the residual amount payable under the same policy. 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 14 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 14 of 15                  
 
Annexure 2  
 
Nomination - As Section 39 of the Insurance Act 1938  
 
(1) The holder of a policy of life insurance on his own life may, when effecting the policy or at any time before the policy matures for 
payment, nominate the person or persons to whom the money secured by the policy shall be paid in the event of his death: 
 
Provided that, where any nominee is a minor, it shall be lawful for the policy holder to appoint any person in the manner laid down by 
the insurer, to receive the money secured by policy in the event of his death during the minority of the nominee. 
 
(2) Any such nomination in order to be effectual shall, unless it is incorporated in the text of the policy itself, be made by an 
endorsement on the policy communicated to the insurer and registered by him in the records relating to the policy and any such 
nomination may at any time before the policy matures for payment be cancelled or changed by an endorsement or a further endorsement 
or a will, as the case may be, but unless notice in writing of any such cancellation or change has been delivered to the insurer, the 
insurer shall not be liable for any payment under the policy made bona fide by him to a nominee mentioned in the text of the policy or 
registered in records of the insurer. 
 
(3) The insurer shall furnish to the policy holder a written acknowledgement of having registered a nomination or a cancellation or 
change thereof, and may charge such fee as may be specified by regulations for registering such cancellation or change. 
 
(4) A transfer or assignment of a policy made in accordance with section 38 shall automatically cancel a nomination: 
 
Provided that the assignment of a policy to the insurer who bears the risk on the policy at the time of the assignment, in consideration of 
a loan granted by that insurer on the security of the policy within its surrender value, or its reassignment on repayment of the loan shall 
not cancel a nomination, but shall affect the rights of the nominee only to the extent of the insurer’s interest in the policy: 
 
Provided further that the transfer or assignment of a policy, whether wholly or in part, in consideration of a loan advanced by the 
transferee or assignee to the policyholder, shall not cancel the nomination but shall affect the rights of the nominee only to the extent of 
the interest of the transferee or assignee, as the case may be, in the policy: 
 
Provided also that the nomination, which has been automatically cancelled consequent upon the transfer or assignment, the same 
nomination shall stand automatically revived when the policy is reassigned by the assignee or retransferred by the transferee in favour of 
the policyholder on repayment of loan other than on a security of policy to the insurer. 
 
(5) Where the policy matures for payment during the lifetime of the person whose life is insured or where the nominee or, if there are 
more nominees than one, all the nominees die before the policy matures for payment, the amount secured by the policy shall be payable 
to the policyholder or his heirs or legal representatives or the holder of a succession certificate, as the case may be. 
 
(6) Where the nominee or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or nominees survive the person whose life is insured, the 
amount secured by the policy shall be payable to such survivor or survivors. 
 
(7) Subject to the other provisions of this section, where the holder of a policy of insurance on his own life nominates his parents, or his 
spouse, or his children, or his spouse and children, or any of them, the nominee or nominees shall be beneficially entitled to the amount 
payable by the insurer to him or them under sub-section (6) unless it is proved that the holder of the policy, having regard to the nature 
of his title to the policy, could not have conferred any such beneficial title on the nominee. 
 
(8) Subject as aforesaid, where the nominee, or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or nominees, to whom sub-section (7) 
applies, die after the person whose life is insured but before the amount secured by the policy is paid, the amount secured by the policy, 
or so much of the amount secured by the policy as represents the share of the nominee or nominees so dying (as the case may be), shall 
be payable to the heirs or legal representatives of the nominee or nominees or the holder of a succession certificate, as the case may be, 
and they shall be beneficially entitled to such amount. 
 
(9) Nothing in sub-sections (7) and (8) shall operate to destroy or impede the right of any creditor to be paid out of the proceeds of any 
policy of life insurance. 
 
(10) The provisions of sub-sections (7) and (8) shall apply to all policies of life insurance maturing for payment after the 
commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015. 
 
(11) Where a policyholder dies after the maturity of the policy but the proceeds and benefit of his policy has not been made to him 
because of his death, in such a case, his nominee shall be entitled to the proceeds and benefit of his policy. 
 
(12) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any policy of life insurance to which section 6 of the Married Women’s Property 
Act, 1874, applies or has at any time applied; 
 
Provided that where a nomination made whether before or after the commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, in 
favour of the wife of the person who has insured his life or of his wife and children or any of them is expressed, whether or not on the 
face of the policy, as being made under this section, the said section 6 shall be deemed not to apply or not to have applied to the policy. 


--- PAGE 15 ---
      Final Policy Document LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)             Page 15 of 15                  
 
Annexure 3  
 
Section 45 as per the Insurance Act 1938:  
 
(1) No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of three years from the date of the 
policy, i.e. from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of 
the rider to the policy, whichever is later. 
 
(2) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date 
of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later on the ground of 
fraud: 
 
Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the 
insured the grounds and materials on which such decision is based. 
Explanation I- For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression “fraud” means any of the following acts committed by the insured or 
by his agent, with the intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance policy:- 
(a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not believe to be true; 
(b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the fact; 
(c) any other act fitted to deceive; and  
(d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent. 
Explanation II- Mere silence as to facts likely to affect the assessment of the risk by the insurer is not fraud, unless the circumstances of 
the case are such that regard being had to them, it is the duty of the insured or his agent, keeping silence to speak, or unless his silence 
is, in itself, equivalent to speak. 
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on the ground of fraud if the 
insured can prove that the misstatement of or suppression of a material fact was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there 
was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of a material fact are within the knowledge 
of the insurer: 
 
Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the beneficiaries, in case the policyholder is not alive. 
Explanation – A person who solicits and negotiates a contract of insurance shall be deemed for the purpose of the formation of the 
contract, to be the agent of the insurer. 
 
(4) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of  the policy or the date 
of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that 
any statement of or suppression of a fact material to the expectancy of  the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or 
other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider issued:  
 
 
Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the 
insured the grounds and materials on which such decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based:  
 
Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on the 
ground of fraud the premiums collected on the policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives 
or nominees or assignees of the insured within a period of ninety days from the date of such repudiation.  
 
Explanation - For the purposes of this sub-section, the misstatement of or suppression of fact shall not be considered material unless it 
has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer, the onus is on the insurer to show that had the insurer been aware of the said 
fact no life insurance policy would have been issued to the insured. 
 
(5) Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so, and no policy shall 
be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the life 
insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

