--- PAGE 1 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 1 of 18  
 
                                                    LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA 
 
 
       
                    (Established by the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956)              
Registration Number: 512 
 
LIC’s NEW JEEVAN ANAND PLAN (UIN: 512N279V03) 
(A Par, Non-Linked, Life, Individual, Savings Plan) 
 
PART- A 
 
 
Ref: NB  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Address and e-mail id of Branch Office): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
 
 
 
Dear Policyholder,                                                                                                               Date: 
 
Re: Your Policy No. _______________ 
 
We have pleasure in forwarding herewith the above policy document comprising of Part A to Part G alongwith Customer Information 
Sheet (CIS), Benefit Illustration and Need Analysis documents..  
 
We would also like to draw your kind attention to the information mentioned in the Schedule of the Policy and the benefits available 
under the Policy. 
 
Some of our plans have certain options (including rider(s)) available under them. It is important that the options, if any, available under 
this plan and mentioned in the policy document are noted carefully as it will be helpful to you, in case you decide to exercise any of the 
available options. It is also essential to note that such option, if available and mentioned in the document of this plan has to be exercised in 
the right manner and during the stipulated time limit as prescribed herein. 
 
Free Look Period 
 
We would request you to go through the terms and conditions of the Policy and in case you disagree with any of the terms and conditions, 
you may return the Policy within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical mode of the policy document, 
whichever is earlier, stating the reasons for your objections and disagreement. On receipt of the policy we shall cancel the same and the 
amount of premium deposited by you shall be refunded to you after deducting the proportionate risk premium (for  Base policy and 
rider(s), if any) for the period of cover and charges for medical examination (including special reports, if any) and for stamp duty. 
 
In case you have any Complaints/Grievance, you may approach the Branch office on the address mentioned above or Grievance Redressal 
Officer/Ombudsman, whose address are as under: 
 
Address of Grievance Redressal Officer: 
 
 
 
Address and contact details of Insurance Ombudsman: 
 
 
 
If you find any errors in this policy document, you may return this Policy for corrections. 
 
Thanking you. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 Chief/Sr. Branch Manager 
 
Agent’s/ 
Intermediary’s 
Code 
Agent’s/ 
Intermediary’s 
Name 
Agent’s/Intermediary’s  
Mobile 
Number/ 
Landline Number 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Space for Name and Address of Policyholder 
Space for Address and e-mail id of Branch Office


--- PAGE 2 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 2 of 18  
 
 
 
We would also like to draw your attention to the following aspects: 
 
1) 
Change of Address: In case you change your residence, kindly ensure that you inform the change in address to the servicing 
Branch Office. 
 
2) 
Assignment: Assignment should be in accordance with the provisions of Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended 
from time to time. The current provisions of Section 38 are enclosed as Annexure-1 for reference. 
 
3) 
Nomination: Nomination should be in accordance with the provision of Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from 
time to time. The current provisions of Section 39 are enclosed as Annexure-2 for reference. 
 
4) 
Policyholder or the claimant, as applicable, is required to intimate the Corporation, about the happening of the insured event 
resulting into a claim under the policy, at the earliest possible time.  
 
5) 
The provisions of Section 45 of Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time shall be applicable: The current provisions 
of the same are enclosed as Annexure-3. 
 
6) 
Various Sections of the Insurance Act, 1938 applicable to LIC to apply as amended from time to time. 
 
7) 
The approved version of Policy Document in respect of this plan is available on our website : www.licindia.in 
 
8) 
Please avail LIC’s e-services. Visit our website: www.licindia.in to enable us to serve you better. 
 
9) 
For Customer Services, you can contact LIC call centre at +91-022 68276827 whose services are available 24*7 in English, 
Hindi and 8 Regional Languages. 
 
 
 
These measures will enable us to serve you better. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 3 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 3 of 18  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                       PREAMBLE 
 
THE LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA (hereinafter called “the Corporation”) having received a Proposal along with 
Declaration and the first premium from the Proposer and the Life Assured named in the Schedule referred to herein below and the said 
Proposal and Declaration with the statements contained and referred to therein having been agreed to by the said Proposer and the 
Corporation as basis of this assurance do by this Policy agree, in consideration of and subject to the due receipt of the subsequent 
premiums as set out in the Schedule, to pay the benefits, but without interest, at the Branch Office of the Corporation where this Policy is 
serviced to the person or persons to whom the same is payable in terms of the said Schedule, on proof to the satisfaction of the 
Corporation of the benefits having become payable as set out in this Policy Document, of the title of the said person or persons claiming 
payment and of the correctness of the age of the Life Assured stated in the Proposal if not previously admitted. 
 
And it is hereby declared that this Policy of Assurance shall be subject to Definitions, Benefits, Conditions related to Servicing Aspects, 
Other Terms and Conditions and Statutory Provisions printed in this policy and that the Schedule and every endorsement placed on the 
Policy by the Corporation shall be deemed part of the Policy.  
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 4 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 4 of 18  
 
SCHEDULE 
 
    DIVISIONAL OFFICE:                                                                                                                        BRANCH OFFICE: 
Policy Number.  
 
UIN: 
 
Plan and Policy Term: 
 
Date of Commencement of 
policy: 
 
Date of Commencement of 
Risk: 
 
Date of Maturity: 
 
Proposal Number: 
 
Date of Proposal: 
 
Date of Issuance of Policy: 
 
Benefit Illustration Reference 
No.: 
 
Basic Sum Assured ( Rs.) 
 
Instalment Premium for  Base Policy (Rs): 
 
Total Instalment Premium (Rs). 
 
(Taxes, if any, as applicable from time to time are 
charged extra) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due date of premium: 
 
Mode of payment of premium: 
 
Due Date of Payment of Last premium for 
Base Policy: 
 
Date of Birth of the Life Assured: 
 
Age of the Life Assured: 
 
Whether age Admitted: 
 
Whether Option to take Death benefit in 
installment taken? 
 
Whether Settlement Option taken? 
Details of Rider Opted: 
Sr.No 
Rider Opted 
UIN 
Date of 
Commencement of 
Risk for Rider 
Rider 
Sum 
Assured 
(Rs.) 
Instalment 
Premium for 
Rider (Rs.) 
Due date of 
payment of 
last premium 
for Rider 
Date of expiry of rider 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Conditions of the rider(s) opted and mentioned above are enclosed as endorsement to the policy. 
 
Unless otherwise stated, all dates described and used in this Schedule are in dd/mm/yyyy formats. 
Name, Gender and Address of Proposer  
 
 
Name, Gender and Address of Life Assured 
Details of Nominee(s) under Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938. 
Type of Nomination: 
Nominee(s) Name 
Nominee’s Age(in yrs) 
Percentage Share 
Relationship to the Life 
Assured 
Appointee 
Name 
(in 
case the Nominee is a 
minor) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Period during which premium payable 
Till the stipulated due date of the payment of last premium or earlier death of 
the Life Assured. 
Dates when premium payable 
On the stipulated due date in _____________________ 
 
Signed on behalf of the Corporation at the above mentioned Branch Office, whose address and e-mail ID are given on the first  page and 
to which all communications relating to the policy should be addressed. 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
Examined by: 
Form No.: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           Chief/ Sr. /Branch Manager 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 5 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 5 of 18  
 
                 
 
 
PART– B: DEFINITIONS 
 
The definitions of terms/words used in the Policy Document are as under: 
 
1. 
Age is the age nearer birthday of the Life Assured at the time of commencement of the policy except for minimum age at entry where 
age is 18 years completed and at minimum maturity age where age is 33 years completed. 
2. 
 Appointee is the person to whom the proceeds/benefits secured under the Policy are payable if the benefit becomes payable to the 
nominee and nominee is minor as on the date of claim payment. 
3. 
Annualized Premium shall be the premium amount payable in a year, excluding taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra 
premiums and loadings for modal premiums. 
4. 
Assignee is the person to whom the rights and benefits are transferred by virtue of an Assignment.  
5. 
Assignment is the process of transferring the rights and benefits to an “Assignee”. Assignment should be in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. 
6. 
Base Policy is that part of the Policy referring to basic benefit (benefits referred to in this Policy Document excluding benefits 
covered under rider(s), if opted for). 
7. 
Basic Sum Assured means the amount specified in the Schedule as opted by the Policyholder at the time of taking the policy. 
8. 
Beneficiary/Claimant means the person(s)/ entity who is/are entitled to receive benefits under this Policy. The Beneficiary to whom 
benefits are payable is  the Proposer or Life Assured or his Assignee under Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from 
time to time or Nominee(s) under Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time or proved Executors or 
Administrators or other Legal Representatives who should take out representation to his/ her Estate or limited to the moneys payable 
under this Policy from any Court of any State or Territory of the Union of India, as applicable. 
  
9. 
Continued Insurability is the determination of insurability of Life Assured/Proposer on revival of policy with rider(s) if opted for, 
to the satisfaction of the Corporation based on the information, documents and reports that are already available and any additional 
information in this regard if and as may be required in accordance with the Underwriting Policy of the Corporation at the time of 
revival. 
10. Corporation means the Life Insurance Corporation of India established under Section 3 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956. 
11. Date of commencement of policy is the start date of this Policy. 
12. Date of commencement of risk is the date on which the Corporation accepts the risk for insurance (cover) as evidenced in the 
Schedule of the policy.  
13. Date of issuance of policy is a date when a proposal after underwriting is accepted as a policy and this contract gets effected. 
14. Date of Maturity means the date specified in the Schedule on which the Policy Term expires. 
15. Death Benefit means the benefit, which is payable on death of the Life Assured, as stated in  this Policy Document. 
16. Discharge form is the form to be filled by policyholder/claimant to claim the maturity/surrender/death benefit under the policy. 
17. Due Date means a fixed date on which the policy premium is due and payable by the policyholder. 
18. Endorsement means conditions attached/ affixed to this Policy incorporating any additions, amendments or modifications agreed to 
or issued by the Corporation. 
19. Extra premium means a charge, due to underwriting decision, for any additional risk not provided for, in minimum contract 
premium. 
20. Final Additional Bonus, also called as Terminal Bonus, is an additional amount payable along with the Simple Reversionary Bonus 
when the  policy terminates, provided such a Final Additional Bonus is declared by the Corporation and the policy is eligible for such 
Final Additional Bonus. 
21. Foreclosure is an action of closing the policy due to default in payment of outstanding loan and/or loan interest on due date when the 
outstanding loan amount along with interest is to exceed the surrender value. 
22. Free Look Period is the period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical mode of the Policy Document, 
whichever is earlier, by the Policyholder to review the terms and conditions of this policy and where the Policyholder disagrees to 
any of those terms and conditions, he/ she has the option to return this policy as detailed in Condition 7 of Part D of this Policy 
Document.  
23. Government Security (G-Sec) in this Policy Document refers to the tradeable instruments issued by Central Government for 
various durations, declared as benchmark securities corresponding to the stated tenors, by Reserve Bank of India. 
24. Grace period is the time granted by the insurer from the due date of payment of premium, without any penalty or late fee, during 
which time the policy is considered to be in-force with the risk cover without any interruption as per the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
25. Guaranteed Surrender Value is the minimum guaranteed amount of Surrender Value payable to the policyholder on surrender of 
the policy. 
26. In-force policy means a policy in which all the due premiums have been paid and the premiums are not outstanding beyond grace 
period. 
27. IRDAI means Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India earlier called as Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority (IRDA). 
28. Lapse is the status of the Policy when due premium is not paid within the grace period. 
29. Life Assured is the person on whose life the insurance cover has been accepted. 
30. Loan is the interest bearing repayable amount granted by the Corporation against the surrender value payable to the policyholder in 
accordance with the terms and conditions as specified under Condition5 of Part D. 
31. Maturity Benefit means the benefit, which is payable on maturity, as stated in this Policy Document. 
32. Material information shall mean all important, essential and relevant information and documents explicitly sought by the 
Corporation in the proposal form. 
The information already known to the Policyholder/Life Assured/Proposer at the time of obtaining a policy which has a bearing on 
underwriting of the proposal /Policy submitted constitutes Material Information. 
33. Minor is a person who has not completed 18 years of age. 
34. Nomination is the process of nominating a person(s) who is (are) named as “Nominee(s)” in the proposal form or subsequently 
included/ changed by an endorsement. Nomination should be in accordance with provisions of Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 
as amended from time to time. 


--- PAGE 6 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 6 of 18  
 
35. Nominee(s) means the person(s) nominated by the Policyholder (who is also the Life Assured) under this Policy who is (are) 
authorised to receive the claim benefit payable under this Policy and to give a valid discharge to the Corporation on settlement of the 
claim. 
36. Option to take Death Benefit in instalments: Option to take death benefit in instalments, as specified in Condition 8 of Part D of 
this Policy Document, is an option available under this Policy, to receive Death Benefit in instalments instead of lumpsum amount 
over a period chosen by the Policyholder/Life Assured. 
37. Par Products means products where policies are entitled to share in surplus (profits) during the term of the policy. 
Such Par policy is eligible for share of profit depending upon the Corporation’s experience in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
38. Paid-Up is the status of the Policy, if the premiums are paid for at least one full year and subsequent premium/s be not paid and on 
completion of first policy year. 
39. Policy Anniversary means one year from the date of commencement of the Policy and the same date falling each year thereafter, till 
the Date of Maturity. 
40. Policy/ Policy Document means this document along with endorsements, if any, issued by the Corporation which is a legal contract 
between the Policyholder and the Corporation. 
41. Policyholder is the legal owner of this policy. 
42. Policy term is the period, in years, as chosen by the policyholder and mentioned in the Schedule, commencing from the Date of 
commencement of policy and ending on the Date of Maturity. 
43. Policy year is the period between two consecutive policy anniversaries. This period includes the first day and excludes the next 
policy anniversary day. 
44. Premium is the contractual amount payable by the Policyholder at specified times periodically as mentioned in the Schedule of this 
Policy Document to secure the benefits under the policy. The premium payable will be “Total Instalment Premium” which includes 
 
Instalment Premium for Base Policy and  
 
Instalment Premium for Rider(s), if rider(s) has been opted for. 
The term ‘Premium’ used anywhere in this Policy Document does not include any taxes which is payable separately. 
45. Proposer is a person who proposes the life insurance proposal. 
46. Pure Risk Products means insurance products (without any saving element) where the payment of agreed amount is assured on the 
happening of death of the life assured or on happening of insured health related contingency within the term of the policy. 
47. Revival of a policy means restoration of the policy, which was discontinued due to the non-payment of premium, by the insurer with 
all the benefits mentioned in the Policy Document, with or without rider benefits if any, upon the receipt of all the premiums due and 
other charges or late fee, if any, during the revival period, as per the terms and conditions of the policy, upon being satisfied as to the 
Continued Insurability of the Life Assured.  
48. Revival Period means the period of five consecutive complete years from the date of first unpaid premium, during which period the 
policyholder is entitled to revive the policy which was discontinued due to the non-payment of premium. 
49. Rider means the insurance cover(s) added to a base policy for additional premium or charge.  
50. Rider Benefits means an amount of benefit payable on occurrence of a specified event covered under the Rider, and is an additional  
benefit to the benefit under Base Policy. 
51.  Rider Premium is the premium payable by the policyholder along with the premium under Base Policy towards the additional 
cover/benefit opted under the rider, if opted. 
52. Rider Sum Assured is the assured amount payable on happening of a specified event covered under the rider, if opted. 
53. Savings Products means those products other than Pure Risk Products. 
54. Schedule is the part of policy document that gives the specific details of your policy.  
55. Simple Reversionary Bonus is the surplus/profit declared at the end of each financial year by the Corporation based on the 
Corporation’s experience to the Participating policies and added to the benefits under the policy as per terms and conditions as 
specified in the policy document. 
56. Settlement Option: Settlement Option, as specified in Condition 9 of Part D of this Policy Document, is an option available under 
this Policy, to receive Maturity Benefit in instalments instead of lumpsum amount over a period chosen by the Policyholder/ Life 
Assured. 
57. Sum Assured on Death means an absolute amount of benefit which is guaranteed to become payable on death of life assured in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy as mentioned in Condition 1A of Part C of the Policy Document. 
58. Sum Assured on Maturity means an absolute amount of benefit which is guaranteed to become payable at the end of the policy 
term i.e. on maturity of the policy, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy . 
59. Surrender means complete withdrawal or termination of the entire policy contract. 
60. Surrender Value means an amount, if any, that becomes payable on surrender of a policy during its term in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
61. Tabular Premium is the premium for the chosen Basic Sum Assured on the age of the Life Assured without application of any 
rebate or extra loading. 
62. Total Premiums paid means the total of all the premiums paid under the base product, excluding any extra premium and taxes, if 
collected explicitly. 
63. Underwriting is the term used to describe the process of assessing risk and ensuring that the cost of the cover is proportionate to the 
risks faced by the individual concerned. Based on underwriting, a decision on acceptance or rejection of cover as well as applicability 
of suitable premium or modified terms, if any, is taken.  
64.  UIN means the Unique Identification Number allotted to this plan by the IRDAI. 
65.  Vested Bonus is the simple reversionary bonus, if any, which has already been declared and remains attached to the policy in 
accordance with the terms and conditions under which the valuation results are declared by the Corporation. 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 7 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 7 of 18  
 
PART–C: BENEFITS 
 
1. 
The following benefits are payable under an in-force policy: 
A. Death Benefit: 
 On death of the Life Assured during the Policy Term i.e. before the stipulated Date of Maturity: 
Death benefit shall be “Sum Assured on Death” along with vested Simple Reversionary Bonuses and Final Additional 
Bonus, if any; where “Sum Assured on Death” shall be higher of 125% of Basic Sum Assured or 7 times of Annualized 
Premium. 
 
This Death Benefit shall not be less than 105% of the total premiums paid  upto the date of death. 
 
The Death Benefit shall be paid in lumpsum as specified above and/or in instalments, as specified in Condition 8 of Part D 
of this Policy Document, as per the option exercised by the Life Assured. 
 
 On death of the Life Assured after expiry of the Policy Term i.e. from the stipulated Date of Maturity:  
Death benefit shall be Basic Sum Assured. 
 
B. 
Maturity Benefit: On Life Assured surviving the stipulated Date of Maturity, “Sum Assured on Maturity” along with vested 
Simple Reversionary Bonuses and Final Additional Bonus, if any, shall be payable; where “Sum Assured on Maturity” is 
equal to Basic Sum Assured. 
 
The Life Assured shall have an option to receive the Maturity benefit in lumpsum as specified above and/or in instalments 
(Settlement Option), as specified in Condition 9 of Part D of this Policy Document. 
 
2. 
Rider Benefits: 
The following four rider(s) (or amended versions of these) shall be available on payment of additional premium: 
 
A.  LIC’s Accidental Death and Disability Benefit Rider  
B.  LIC’s New Term Assurance Rider  
C.  LIC’s Accident Benefit Rider 
D. LIC’s Critical Illness Health Rider  
 
However, the eligible Life Assured can opt between either of the LIC’s Accidental Death and Disability Benefit Rider or LIC’s 
Accident Benefit Rider. Therefore, a maximum of three riders can be availed under this policy. 
 
LIC’s Accidental Death and Disability Benefit Rider / LIC’s Accident Benefit Rider: Under an in-force policy either of these 
riders can be opted for at any time within the policy term of the Base Policy provided, the outstanding premium paying term of the 
Base Policy as well as the rider is at least five years but before the policy anniversary on which the age nearer birthday of the Life 
Assured is 65 years.  
 
LIC’s New Term Assurance Rider: This rider is available only at the inception of the policy on payment of additional premium. 
 
LIC’s Critical Illness Health Rider: This rider is available only at the inception of the policy on payment of additional premium 
subject to a maximum rider term of 25 years. 
 
Conditions of rider(s), if opted, are enclosed as endorsement to this policy. 
 
3. 
Participation in profits:  
 
The policy shall participate in profits of the Corporation and shall be entitled to receive Simple Reversionary Bonuses declared as per 
the experience of the Corporation during the Policy term, provided the policy is in-force. 
 
In case the premiums are not duly paid, the policy shall cease to participate in future profits irrespective of whether or not the policy 
has acquired paid-up value.  
Simple Reversionary Bonuses shall be declared annually at the end of each financial year.  Once declared, they form part of the 
guaranteed benefits of the plan on such terms and conditions as declared by the Corporation. 
 
In the event of policy being surrendered, the surrender value of vested bonuses, if any, as applicable on the date of surrender, will be 
payable as specified in Condition 4 of Part D of this Policy Document. 
 
Final Additional Bonus may also be declared under the policy in the year when the policy results into a death claim during the policy 
term or due for the maturity benefit payment at such rates and on such terms as may be declared by the Corporation. 
 
Final Additional Bonus shall not be payable under paid up policies. 
 
The actual allocation to policyholders, out of the surplus emerging from the actuarial investigation, shall be in accordance with 
provisions in this regard under LIC Act, 1956. 
 
4. 
Payment of Premiums: 
(a) The policyholder has to pay the Premium on the due dates as specified in the Schedule of this Policy Document along with 
applicable taxes, if any, from time to time. 
  
(b) In case of death of Life Assured under an in-force policy wherein all the premiums due till the date of death have been paid 


--- PAGE 8 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 8 of 18  
 
and where the mode of payment of premium is other than yearly, balance premium(s), if any, falling due from the date of 
death and before the next policy anniversary shall be deducted from the claim amount. 
 
The Corporation does not have any obligation to issue a notice that premium is due or for the amount that is due. 
 
5. 
Grace Period   
A grace period of 30 days shall be allowed for payment of yearly or half yearly or quarterly premiums and 15 days for monthly 
premiums from the date of First unpaid premium. If the premium is not paid before the expiry of the days of grace, the Policy lapses. 
   
If the death of the Life Assured occurs within the grace period but before the payment of the premium then due, the policy will still 
be valid and the benefits shall be paid after deductions of the said unpaid premium as also the balance premium(s), if any, falling due 
from the date of death and before the next policy anniversary. 
 
The above grace period will also apply to rider premiums which are payable along with premium for Base Policy. 
 
PART-D:  CONDITIONS RELATED TO SERVICING ASPECTS 
1. 
Proof of Age :  
The Premium payable under the Base Policy and Premium for Optional Riders have been calculated on the age of the Life Assured 
as declared in the Proposal Form. 
 
In case, the age of Life Assured is mis-stated in the Proposal Form and correct age is found to be different (higher or lower) than 
such age, without prejudice to the Corporation’s other rights and remedies, including the provisions under Insurance Act, 1938, as 
amended from time to time, Corporation shall check the eligibility of Life Assured based on the correct age as on the date of 
commencement of policy and the following action shall be taken: 
 
If the Life Assured remains eligible for Base Policy and Rider(s) opted, if any: 
Subject to the then existing underwriting norms, the premium for the Base Policy and Rider(s) opted, if any, shall be recalculated on 
the Basic Sum Assured and Rider(s) Sum Assured respectively for the correct age and the revised premium(s) shall be payable by 
the policyholder under the Base Policy and Rider(s). Further, accumulated difference between the premiums for the correct age and 
the original premiums, from the commencement of the Base Policy / Rider upto the date of payment of revised premium shall be 
paid to the Corporation with interest at such rate as fixed by the Corporation from time to time. Any outstanding premium and/or 
interest, if unpaid the same shall be recoverable from any claim proceeds payable under the policy. 
 
If the correct age is found to be lower than the declared age, excess Premium for Base Policy and Rider(s) premium collected shall 
be refunded without interest. 
 
If the Life Assured is ineligible for Base Policy: 
Base Policy along with opted Rider(s) shall be cancelled and the Premiums paid towards Base Policy and Rider(s), if any, shall be 
refunded without interest subject to deduction of all applicable expenses like proportionate risk premium (for Base Policy and 
Rider(s), if any) for the period of cover, applicable taxes and charges for medical examination, special reports, if any and stamp 
duty, incurred under the policy. The policy shall terminate on said payment. 
 
If Life Assured is eligible for Base Policy but ineligible for any of the opted Riders: 
Such Rider(s) shall be cancelled and the Premiums paid in respect of such Rider(s) shall be refunded without interest, subject to 
deduction of all applicable expenses like proportionate risk premium for Rider(s) for the period of cover, applicable taxes and 
charges for medical examination, special reports, if any and stamp duty, incurred in respect of the Rider(s). The respective Rider(s) 
shall terminate on said payment. However, the Base Policy shall continue with the altered terms. 
 
2. 
Forfeiture and Non-forfeiture Regulations: 
 
Forfeiture Regulations:  
i. 
If less than one full year’s premium(s) has been paid in respect of this policy and any subsequent premium be not duly paid, all 
the benefits under this policy shall cease after the expiry of grace period from the date of first unpaid premium and nothing shall 
be payable, and the premiums paid thitherto are also not refundable. 
 
ii. 
Forfeiture in Certain Other Events:  In case any condition herein contained or endorsed hereon be contravened or in case it is 
found that any untrue or incorrect statement is contained in the proposal, personal statement, declaration and connected 
documents or any material information is withheld, then and in every such case this policy shall be void and all claims to any 
benefit in virtue of this policy shall be subject to the provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time 
to time.  
 
Non-forfeiture Regulations:  
 
If, after atleast one full year’s premium(s) has been paid and any subsequent premiums be not duly paid, on completion of first 
policy year, this policy shall not be wholly void, but shall subsist as a paid-up policy. 
 
During the Policy Term: 
The “Sum Assured on Death”  under the paid-up policy shall be reduced to such a sum, called “Death Paid-up Sum Assured” 
and shall be equal to Sum Assured on Death multiplied by the ratio of total period for which premiums have already been paid 
bears to the maximum period for which premium were originally payable. The Death Benefit payable under the paid-up policy, on 


--- PAGE 9 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 9 of 18  
 
death of the Life Assured during the policy term, shall be Death Paid-Up Sum Assured along with vested simple reversionary 
bonuses, if any. This Death benefit, shall not be less than 105% of total premiums paid upto the date of death. 
 
This “Sum Assured on Maturity” under the paid-up policy shall be reduced to such a sum called “Maturity Paid –Up Sum 
Assured” and shall be equal to Sum Assured on Maturity multiplied by the ratio of total period for which premiums have 
already been paid bears to the maximum period for which premium were originally payable. The Maturity Benefit payable under 
the paid-up policy, on the expiry of the policy term, shall be Maturity Paid-Up Sum Assured along with vested simple 
reversionary bonuses, if any.   
 
After the expiry of Policy Term: 
On death of the Life Assured after expiry of the policy term only Paid-up Sum Assured shall be payable. Paid-up Sum Assured 
shall be equal to Basic Sum Assured multiplied by the ratio of the total period for which premiums have already been paid bears 
to the maximum period for which premiums were originally payable. 
 
A paid-up policy shall not be entitled to participate in future profits. However, the vested simple reversionary bonuses, if any, shall 
remain attached to the paid up policy.  
 
Notwithstanding what is stated above, if atleast 3 full years’ premiums have been paid in respect of this policy, and any subsequent 
premium be not duly paid, in the event of the death of the Life Assured within six months from the due date of first unpaid 
premium, ‘Sum Assured on Death’ along with vested simple reversionary bonuses and final additional bonus, if any, shall be paid 
after deduction of (a) the unpaid  premium(s) for the Base Policy with interest thereon upto the date of death, on the same terms as 
for revival of the Policy during such period, and (b) the balance  premium(s) for the Base Policy falling due from the date of death 
and before the next Policy anniversary. This provision shall not apply in case of death due to suicide. 
 
Notwithstanding what is stated above, if at least five full years' premiums have been paid in respect of this policy, and any 
subsequent  premium be not duly paid, in the event of death of the Life Assured within 12 months from the due date of first unpaid 
premium, ‘Sum Assured on Death’ along with vested simple reversionary bonuses and final additional bonus, if any, shall be paid  
after deduction of (a) the unpaid  premium(s) for the Base Policy with interest thereon upto the date of death, on the same terms as 
for revival of the Policy during such period, and (b) the balance  premium(s)  for the Base Policy falling due from the date of death 
and before the next Policy anniversary. This provision shall not apply in case of death due to suicide. 
 
All of the above mentioned Non-forfeiture Regulations do not apply to Riders as the Riders do not acquire any paid up value. 
 
The Riders Benefits ceases to apply, if the policy is in lapsed condition. 
 
3. 
Revival of lapsed Policies An Insurance Policy would lapse on non-payment of due premium within the days of grace. A policy in 
lapsed condition may be revived during the life time of the Life Assured, but within the Revival Period and before the Date of 
Maturity, as the case may be. The revival shall be effected on payment of all the arrears of premium(s) together with interest 
(compounding half yearly) at such rate as may be fixed by the Corporation from time to time and on satisfaction of Continued 
Insurability of the Life Assured on the basis of information, documents and reports that are already available and any additional 
information in this regard if and as may be required in accordance with the Underwriting Policy of the Corporation at the time of 
revival, being furnished by the Policyholder/Life Assured/Proposer. 
  
The Corporation, however, reserves the right to accept at original terms, accept with modified terms or decline the revival of a 
discontinued policy. The revival of the discontinued policy shall take effect only after the same is approved, accepted and revival 
receipt is issued by the Corporation. 
 
The rate of interest applicable for revival under this product for every 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April shall not exceed 
10 year G-Sec yield p.a. compounding half yearly as at the last trading day of previous financial year plus 3% or the yield earned on 
the Corporation’s Non-Linked Participating Fund plus 1%, whichever is higher. For the 12 months’ period commencing from 1st 
May, 2024 to 30th April, 2025, the applicable interest rate shall be 9.50% p.a. compounding half yearly. The basis for determination 
of interest rate for policy revival is subject to change. 
 
Revival of Rider(s), if opted for, will only be considered along with the revival of the Base policy and not in isolation.     
 
4. 
Surrender :  
The policy can be surrendered by the policyholder after completion of first policy year provided one full year’s premium(s) has been 
paid. However, the policy shall acquire Guaranteed Surrender Value on payment of atleast two full years’ premiums and Special 
Surrender Value after completion of first policy year provided one full year’s premium(s) has been paid. On surrender of an in-force 
or paid-up policy, the Corporation shall pay the Surrender Value equal to higher of Guaranteed Surrender Value and Special 
Surrender Value. 
 
The Guaranteed Surrender Value payable during the policy term shall be equal to the total premiums paid (excluding any extra 
premium, any premiums for rider(s), if opted for and taxes if collected explicitly) multiplied by the Guaranteed Surrender Value 
factor applicable to total premiums paid. These Guaranteed Surrender Value factors expressed as percentages will depend on the 
policy term and policy year in which the policy is surrendered and are contained in Annexure - 4 of this policy document. 
 
In addition, the surrender value of vested simple reversionary bonuses, if any, shall also be payable, which is equal to vested bonuses 
multiplied by the Guaranteed Surrender Value factor applicable to vested bonuses. These Guaranteed Surrender Value factors will 
depend on the policy term and the policy year in which policy is surrendered and are contained in Annexure – 5 of this policy 
document. 
 


--- PAGE 10 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 10 of 18  
 
No Guaranteed Surrender Value is applicable after maturity benefit is paid i.e. after expiry of the policy term. 
 
The Special Surrender Value shall be determined and reviewed annually in line with IRDAI Master Circular on Life Insurance 
Products, Ref: IRDAI/ACTL/MSTCIR/MISC/89/6/2024 dated 12th June, 2024 and any subsequent circulars issued by IRDAI in this 
regard. 
 
 No surrender value will be available on Rider(s), if any.  
 
Upon payment of Surrender Value, the Policy terminates and no further benefits shall be payable. 
 
5. 
 Policy Loan: During the Policy Term, loan shall be available under the policy subject to the following  terms and conditions, within 
the surrender value of the policy : 
 
(i) Loan can be availed after completion of first policy year provided one full year’s premium(s) has been paid. 
 
(ii) The maximum Loan that can be granted as a percentage of Surrender value during the policy term shall be as under : 
 
Policy Status 
Before payment of two  full 
year’s premiums 
After payment of two  full 
year’s premiums 
Under In-force policies 
50% 
75% 
Under Paid-up policies 
40% 
65% 
 
(iii) The Policy shall be assigned absolutely to and held by the Corporation as security for the repayment of Loan and of the 
interest thereon; 
 
(iv) Interest on Loan shall be paid on compounding half-yearly basis to the Corporation at the rate to be specified by the 
Corporation at the time of taking loan under this policy. The rate of loan interest applicable for full loan term, for the loan 
to be availed under this policy for every 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April shall not exceed 10year G-Sec yield 
p.a. compounding half-yearly as at the last trading date of previous financial year plus 3% or the yield earned on the 
Corporation’s Non-Linked, Participating fund plus 1%, whichever is higher. For loan sanctioned during 12 months’ period 
commencing from 1st May, 2024 to 30th April, 2025 the applicable interest rate shall be 9.5% p.a. compounding half-
yearly for entire term of the loan. The basis for determination of interest rate for Policy Loan is subject to change. The first 
payment of interest is to be made on the next Policy anniversary or on the date six months before the next Policy 
anniversary whichever immediately follows the date on which the Loan is sanctioned  and every half year thereafter.   
 
(v) In the event of default in payment of loan interest on the due dates as herein mentioned above and when the outstanding 
loan along with interest is to exceed the surrender value, the Corporation would be entitled to foreclose such policies. Such 
policies when being foreclosed shall be entitled to payment of the difference of surrender value and the loan outstanding 
amount along with interest, if any.  
 
(vi) Corporation is entitled to recover or recall the amount of the Loan with all due interest by giving 3 month notice.   
 
(vii) In case the policy shall mature or be surrendered or become a claim by death, the Corporation shall become entitled to 
deduct the amount of the Loan or any portion thereof which is outstanding, together with all interest from the policy 
moneys. 
 
6. 
Termination of Policy: 
 
The policy shall immediately and automatically terminate on the earliest occurrence of any of the following events: 
a) 
The date on which lumpsum  Death Benefit / Final instalment of Death Benefit / Final instalment under Settlement Option, 
whichever is later, is paid; or  
b) 
The date on which surrender benefits are settled under the policy; or  
c) 
In the event of default in payment of loan interest as specified in Condition 5 of Part D of this policy document; or 
d) 
On expiry of Revival Period  if the policy, which has not acquired paid up status, has not been revived within the revival 
period; or 
e) 
On payment of free look cancellation amount; or  
f) 
In the event of forfeiture as specified in Condition 2 of Part D of this Policy Document. 
 
7. 
Free look period:  
 
During the Free Look period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the electronic or physical mode of Policy Document, whichever is 
earlier, by the Policyholder, if the Policyholder is not satisfied with the Terms and Conditions of the policy, he/she may return the 
policy to the Corporation stating the reason of objections. On receipt of the same the Corporation shall cancel the policy and return 
the amount of premium deposited after deducting the proportionate risk premium (for Base Policy and Rider(s), if opted for) for the 
period of cover, expense incurred on medical examinations (including special reports, if any) and stamp duty charges. 
 
8. 
Option to take Death Benefit in instalments:  
This is an option to receive Death Benefit in instalments over the chosen period of 5 or 10 or 15 years instead of lump sum amount 
under an in-force as well as paid-up policy. This option can be exercised by the Life Assured, during his/her life time; for full or part 
of Death benefits payable under the policy. The amount opted for by the Life Assured (i.e. Net Claim Amount) can be either in 
absolute value or as a percentage of the total claim proceeds payable. 
 


--- PAGE 11 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 11 of 18  
 
The instalments shall be paid in advance at yearly or half-yearly or quarterly or monthly intervals, as opted for, subject to minimum 
instalment amount for different modes of payments being as under: 
 
Mode of Instalment payment 
Minimum instalment amount 
Monthly 
Rs. 5,000/- 
Quarterly 
Rs. 15,000/- 
Half-Yearly 
Rs. 25,000/- 
Yearly 
Rs. 50,000/- 
 
If the Net Claim Amount is less than the required amount to provide the minimum instalment amount as per the option exercised by 
the Life Assured,  the claim proceed shall be paid in lump sum only. 
 
For all the instalment payment options commencing during the 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30thApril, the interest rate used to 
arrive at the amount of each instalment shall be annual effective rate not lower than the 10 year semi-annual G-Sec yield p.a. minus 
2%; where, the 10 year semi-annual G-Sec yield shall be as at last trading day of previous financial year. Accordingly, for the 12 
months period commencing from 1st May, 2024 to 30th April, 2025, the applicable interest rate for the calculation of the instalment 
amount shall be 5.07% p.a. effective. 
 
For exercising option to take Death Benefit in instalments,  the Life Assured can exercise this option during his/her lifetime while in 
currency of the policy, specifying the period of Instalment payment and net claim amount for which the option is to be exercised. The 
death claim amount shall then be paid to the nominee as per the option exercised by the Life Assured and no alteration, whatsoever, 
shall be allowed to be made by the nominee. 
 
9. 
Settlement Option (for Maturity Benefit):  
 
Settlement Option is an option to receive Maturity Benefit in instalments over the chosen period of 5 or 10 or 15 years instead of 
lumpsum amount under an in-force as well as paid-up policy. This option can be exercised by the Life Assured, for full or part of 
Maturity proceeds payable under the policy. The amount opted for by the Life Assured (i.e. Net Claim Amount) can be either in 
absolute value or as a percentage of the total claim proceeds payable. 
 
The instalments shall be paid in advance at yearly or half-yearly or quarterly or monthly intervals, as opted for, subject to minimum 
instalment amount for different mode of payments being as under: 
 
Mode of Instalment payment 
Minimum instalment amount 
Monthly 
Rs. 5,000/- 
Quarterly 
Rs. 15,000/- 
Half-Yearly 
Rs. 25,000/- 
Yearly 
Rs. 50,000/- 
 
If the Net Claim Amount is less than the required amount to provide the minimum instalment amount as per the option exercised by 
the Life Assured, the claim proceed shall be paid in lumpsum only. 
 
For all the instalment payment options commencing during the 12 months’ period from 1st May to 30th April, the interest rate used to 
arrive at the amount of each instalment shall be annual effective rate not lower than the 10 year semi-annual G- Sec yield p.a. minus 
2%; where, the 10 year semi-annual G-Sec yield shall be as at last trading day of previous financial year. Accordingly, for the 12 
months period commencing from 1st May, 2024 to 30th April, 2025, the applicable interest rate for the calculation of the instalment 
amount shall be 5.07% p.a. effective. 
 
For exercising the Settlement Option against Maturity Benefit, the Life Assured shall be required to exercise option for payment of 
net claim amount in instalments at least 3 months before the due date of maturity claim. 
 
The first payment will be made on  the date of maturity and thereafter, based on the mode of instalment payment opted for by  the 
Life Assured, every month or three months or six months or annually from the date of maturity, as the case may be. 
 
After the commencement of Instalment payments under Settlement Option: 
 
i. If a Life Assured, who has exercised Settlement Option against Maturity Benefit, desires to withdraw this option and 
commute the outstanding instalments, the same shall be allowed on receipt of written request from the Life Assured. In such 
case, the lump sum amount which is higher of the following shall be paid and policy shall terminate, 
 
discounted value of all the future instalments due; or 
 
(the original amount for which settlement option was exercised) less (sum of total instalments already paid); 
 
ii. The applicable interest rate that will be used to discount the future instalment payments shall be annual effective rate not 
exceeding 10 year semi-annual G-Sec yield p.a.; where, the 10 year semi-annual G-Sec yield shall be as at last trading day 
of previous financial year during which Settlement Option was commenced. Accordingly, in respect of all the Settlement 
Options commenced during the 12 months’ period beginning from 1st May, 2024 to 30th April, 2025, the maximum 
applicable interest rate used for discounting the future instalments shall be 7.07% p.a. effective. 
 
iii. After the Date of Maturity, in case of death of the Life Assured, who has exercised Settlement Option, the outstanding 
instalments will continue to be paid to the nominee as per the option exercised by the Life Assured and no alteration 
whatsoever shall be allowed to be made by the nominee. 
 


--- PAGE 12 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 12 of 18  
 
PART E 
 
Not Applicable 
 
PART-F: OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
1. 
Assignments: 
a)  Assignment is allowed under this plan as per Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time. The current 
provisions of Section 38 are contained in Annexure-1 of this policy document. The notice of assignment should be submitted for 
registration to the office of the Corporation, where the policy is serviced. 
 
           b) Nominations:  
Nomination by the holder of a policy of life assurance on his/her own life is allowed as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 
1938, as amended from time to time. The current provisions of Section 39 are contained in Annexure-2 of this policy document. 
The notice of nomination or change of nomination should be submitted for registration to the office of the Corporation, where 
the policy is serviced. In registering nomination the Corporation does not accept any responsibility or express any opinion as to 
its validity or legal effect. 
 
2. 
Suicide Exclusion : Notwithstanding the provision of benefits payable on death mentioned anywhere in this Policy Document, the 
provisions related to claim payment in case of death due to suicide shall be subject to the conditions as specified herein under: 
 
i) 
If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the date of commencement 
of risk, the Nominee or Beneficiary of the Life assured shall be entitled to 80% of the total premiums paid till the date of 
death (excluding any taxes if collected explicitly, extra premium and rider premiums other than term assurance rider, if any), 
provided the policy is in-force. 
 
ii) 
If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide within 12 months from date of revival, an amount which is 
higher of 80% of the total premiums paid till the date of death (excluding any taxes if collected explicitly, extra premium and 
rider premiums, other than term assurance rider  if any,) or the surrender value available as on the date of death shall be 
payable. The Nominee or Beneficiary of the Life assured shall not be entitled to   any other claim under this policy. 
 
This clause shall not be applicable for a policy lapsed without acquiring paid-up value and nothing shall be payable under 
such policies. 
 
The relaxation mentioned under Non-forfeiture provisions shall not be applicable in case of death due to suicide. 
 
3. 
Tax:  
Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Government of India or any other constitutional tax Authority of 
India shall be as per the Tax laws and the rate of tax as applicable from time to time. 
 
The amount of applicable taxes as per the prevailing rates, shall be payable by the policyholder on premiums (for Base Policy and 
rider(s), if any) including extra premium, if any, which shall be collected separately over and above in addition to the premiums 
payable by the  policyholder. The amount of tax paid shall not be considered for the calculation of benefits payable under the plan. 
 
4. 
Normal requirements for a claim:  
(a) Death Claim: The normal documents which the claimant shall submit while lodging the claim in case of death of the Life 
Assured shall be claim forms, as prescribed by the Corporation, accompanied with original policy document, NEFT mandate 
from the claimant for direct credit of the claim amount to the bank account, proof of title, proof of death, medical treatment prior 
to the death (if any), school/college/employer’s certificate, whichever is applicable, to the satisfaction of the Corporation. If the 
age is not admitted under the policy, the proof of age of the Life Assured shall also be submitted.  
 
In case of unnatural death or death on account of or arising from an accident, the Corporation may call for the copies of First 
Information Report (FIR), Panchnama and Post Mortem report. The Corporation may also call for additional documents as may 
be required by them. 
 
Policyholder or the claimant, as applicable, is required to intimate the Corporation, about the happening of the insured event 
resulting into a claim under the policy, at the earliest possible time.  
 
(b) Maturity/Surrender Claim: Where the policy results into a maturity claim or in case of surrender of the policy, the Life Assured 
shall submit the discharge form along with the original policy document, NEFT mandate from the claimant for direct credit of 
the claim amount to the bank account besides proof of age, if the age is not admitted earlier. 
 
In addition to above, any requirement mandated under any statutory provision or as may be required as per law shall also be required 
to be submitted. 
 
5. 
Legislative Changes: The Terms and Conditions including the premiums and benefits payable under this policy are subject to 
variation in accordance with the relevant Legislation & Regulations. 
 
6. 
Need Analysis: Your need analysis document under suitability assessment is enclosed to this Policy Document. 
 
7. 
Benefit illustration: Your customized Benefit Illustration is enclosed to this Policy document. 
 


--- PAGE 13 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 13 of 18  
 
8. 
Issuance of Duplicate Policy:  
The Policyholder can make an application for duplicate Policy on payment of policy preparation charges, policy stamp charges and 
applicable taxes, if any, which are specified from time to time* upon loss of Policy Document along with other requirements as may 
be prescribed by the Corporation.  
 
*As on January, 2024, the applicable duplicate policy preparation charge is Rs 75.00. In addition, Indemnity Bond notarized as per 
requisite stamp value is also required and the stamp fee for the same shall be borne by the Policyholder. 
 
9. 
Governing Law and Jurisdiction: 
The Policy shall be governed by the laws of India and the Indian Courts shall have jurisdiction to settle any disputes arising under the 
Policy. 
 
 
PART-G: STATUTORY PROVISIONS 
 
Section 45 of Insurance Act, 1938: 
 
The provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time, shall be applicable. The current provisions are 
contained in Annexure-3 of this policy document. 
 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism: 
Of the Corporation: 
The Corporation has Grievance Redressal Officers (GROs) at Branch/ Divisional/ Zonal/ Central Office to redress grievances of 
customers. The customers can visit our website (https://licindia.in/web/guest/grievances) for names and contact details of the GROs and 
other information related to grievances. 
 
For ensuring quick redressal of customer grievances the Corporation has introduced Customer friendly Integrated Complaint Management 
System through our Customer Portal (website) http://www.licindia.in, where a registered policy holder can directly register complaint/ 
grievance and track its status. Customers can also contact at e-mail id co_complaints@licindia.com for redressal of any grievances. 
 
Claimants not satisfied with the decision of death claim repudiation have the option of referring their cases for review to Zonal Office 
Claims Dispute Redressal Committee or Central Office Claims Dispute Redressal Committee. A retired High Court/ District Court Judge 
is member of each of the Claims Dispute Redressal Committees. 
 
Of IRDAI:  
In case the customer is not satisfied with the response or does not receive a response from us within 15 days, then the customer may 
approach the Policyholder’s Protection and Grievance Redressal Department through any of the following modes: 
 Calling Toll Free Number 155255 / 18004254732 (i.e. IRDAI Grievance Call Centre (BIMA BHAROSA SHIKAYAT NIVARAN 
KENDRA)) 
 Sending an email to complaints@irdai.gov.in 
 Register the complaint online at https:// bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/ 
 Address for sending the complaint through courier / letter: 
General Manger, Policyholders Protection and Grievance Redressal Department, 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India,   
Survey No.115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad- 500032, Telangana. 
 
Of Ombudsman: 
For redressal of Claims related grievances, claimants can also approach Insurance Ombudsman who provides for low cost and speedy 
arbitration to customers. 
 
The Ombudsman, as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules, 2017, can receive and consider complaints or disputes relating to the matters such 
as: 
(a). Delay in settlement of claims, beyond the time specified in the regulations, framed under the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India Act, 1999; 
(b). Any partial or total repudiation of claims by the life insurer, General insurer or the health insurer; 
(c). Disputes over premium paid or payable in terms of insurance policy;  
(d). Misrepresentation of policy terms and conditions at any time in the policy document or policy contract;  
(e). Legal construction of insurance policies in so far as the dispute relates to claim;  
(f). Policy servicing related grievances against insurers and their agents and intermediaries; 
(g). Issuance of life insurance policy, general insurance policy including health insurance policy which is not in conformity with the 
proposal form submitted by the proposer;  
(h). Non-issuance of insurance policy after receipt of premium in life insurance and general insurance including health insurance; 
and  
(i). Any other matter resulting from the violation of provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938  or the regulations, circulars, guidelines 
or instructions issued by the IRDAI from time to time or the terms and conditions of the policy contract, in so far as they relate 
to issues mentioned at clauses (a) to (f) 
 
Note: In case of dispute in respect of interpretation of terms and conditions mentioned in this document, the English version shall stand 
valid. 
YOU ARE REQUESTED TO EXAMINE THIS POLICY, AND IF ANY MISTAKE BE FOUND THEREIN, RETURN IT 
IMMEDIATELY FOR CORRECTION. 


--- PAGE 14 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 14 of 18  
 
Annexure - 1 
 
Assignment - As per Section 38 of the Insurance Act 1938 
 
(1) A transfer or assignment of a policy of insurance, wholly or in part, whether with or without consideration, may be made only by an 
endorsement upon the policy itself or by a separate instrument, signed in either case by the transferor or by the assignor or his duly 
authorised agent and attested by at least one witness, specifically setting forth the fact of transfer or assignment and the reasons thereof, 
the antecedents of the assignee and the terms on which the assignment is made. 
 
(2) An insurer may, accept the transfer or assignment, or decline to act upon any endorsement made under sub-section(1), where it has 
sufficient reason to believe that such transfer or assignment is not bonafide or is not in the interest of the policyholder or in public interest 
or is for the purpose of trading of insurance policy. 
 
 
(3) The insurer shall, before refusing to act upon the endorsement, record in writing the reasons for such refusal and communicate the 
same to the policyholder not later than thirty days from the date of the policy-holder giving notice of such transfer or assignment. 
 
(4) Any person aggrieved by the decision of an insurer to decline to act upon such transfer or assignment may within a period of thirty 
days from the date of receipt of the communication from the insurer containing reasons for such refusal, prefer a claim to the Authority. 
 
(5) Subject to the provisions in sub-section (2), the transfer or assignment shall be complete and effectual upon the execution of such 
endorsement or instrument duly attested but except, where the transfer or assignment is in favour of the insurer, shall not be operative as 
against an insurer, and shall not confer upon the transferee or assignee, or his legal representative, any right to sue for the amount of such 
policy or the moneys secured thereby until a notice in writing of the transfer or assignment and either the said endorsement or instrument 
itself or a copy thereof certified to be correct by both transferor and transferee or their duly authorised agents have been delivered to the 
insurer: 
 
Provided that where the insurer maintains one or more places of business in India, such notice shall be delivered only at the place where 
the policy is being serviced. 
 
(6) The date on which the notice referred to in sub-section (5) is delivered to the insurer shall regulate the priority of all claims under a 
transfer or assignment as between persons interested in the policy; and where there is more than one instrument of transfer or assignment 
the priority of the claims under such instruments shall be governed by the order in which the notices referred to in sub-section (5) are 
delivered: 
 
Provided that if any dispute as to priority of payment arises as between assignees, the dispute shall be referred to the Authority. 
 
(7) Upon the receipt of the notice referred to in sub-section (5), the insurer shall record the fact of such transfer or assignment together 
with the date thereof and the name of the transferee or the assignee and shall, on the request of the person by whom the notice was given, 
or of  the transferee or assignee, on payment of such fee as may be specified by the regulations, grant a written acknowledgement of the 
receipt of such notice; and any such acknowledgement shall be conclusive evidence against the insurer that he has duly received the notice 
to which such acknowledgment relates. 
 
(8) Subject to the terms and conditions of the transfer or assignment, the insurer shall, from the date of the receipt of the notice referred to 
in sub-section (5), recognize the transferee or assignee named in the notice as the absolute transferee or assignee entitled to benefit under 
the policy, and such person shall be subject to all liabilities and equities to which the transferor or assignor was subject at the date of the 
transfer or assignment and may institute any proceedings in relation to the policy, obtain a loan under the policy or surrender the policy 
without obtaining the consent of the transferor or assignor or making him a party to such proceedings. 
 
Explanation – Except where the endorsement referred to in sub-section (1) expressly indicates that the assignment or transfer is 
conditional in terms of sub-section (10) hereunder, every assignment or transfer shall be deemed to be an absolute assignment or transfer 
and the assignee or transferee, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be the absolute assignee or transferee respectively. 
 
(9) Any rights and remedies of an assignee or transferee of a policy of  life insurance under an assignment or transfer effected prior to the 
commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 shall not be affected by the  provisions of this Section. 
 
(10) Notwithstanding any law or custom  having the force of  law to the contrary, an assignment in favour of a person made upon the 
condition that-  
 
a. 
The proceeds under the policy shall become payable to the policyholder or the nominee or nominees in the event of either 
the assignee or transferee predeceasing the insured; or 
 
 
b. 
The insured surviving the term of the policy , shall be valid: 
 
Provided that a conditional assignee shall not be entitled to obtain a loan on the policy or surrender a policy. 
 
(11) In the case of the partial assignment or transfer of a policy of insurance under sub-section (1), the liability of the insurer shall be 
limited to the amount secured by partial assignment or transfer and such policyholder shall not be entitled to further assign or transfer the 
residual amount payable under the same policy. 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 15 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 15 of 18  
 
Annexure - 2 
 
Nomination - As per Section 39 of the Insurance Act 1938 
 
(1) The holder of a policy of life insurance on his own life may, when effecting the policy or at any time before the policy matures for 
payment, nominate the person or persons to whom the money secured by the policy shall be paid in the event of his death: 
Provided that, where any nominee is a minor, it shall be lawful for the policy holder to appoint any person in the manner laid down by the 
insurer, to receive the money secured by policy in the event of his death during the minority of the nominee. 
 
(2) Any such nomination in order to be effectual shall, unless it is incorporated in the text of the policy itself, be made by an endorsement 
on the policy communicated to the insurer and registered by him in the records relating to the policy and any such nomination may at any 
time before the policy matures for payment be cancelled or changed by an endorsement or a further endorsement or a will, as the case may 
be, but unless notice in writing of any such cancellation or change has been delivered to the insurer, the insurer shall not be liable for any 
payment under the policy made bona fide by him to a nominee mentioned in the text of the policy or registered in records of the insurer. 
 
(3) The insurer shall furnish to the policy holder a written acknowledgement of having registered a nomination or a cancellation or change 
thereof, and may charge such fee as may be specified by regulations for registering such cancellation or change. 
 
(4) A transfer or assignment of a policy made in accordance with Section 38 shall automatically cancel a nomination: 
Provided that the assignment of a policy to the insurer who bears the risk on the policy at the time of the assignment, in consideration of a 
loan granted by that insurer on the security of the policy within its surrender value, or its reassignment on repayment of the loan shall not 
cancel a nomination, but shall affect the rights of the nominee only to the extent of the insurer’s interest in the policy: 
 
Provided further that the transfer or assignment of a policy, whether wholly or in part, in consideration of a loan advanced by the 
transferee or assignee to the policyholder, shall not cancel the nomination but shall affect the rights of the nominee only to the extent of 
the interest of the transferee or assignee, as the case may be, in the policy: 
 
Provided also that the nomination, which has been automatically cancelled consequent upon the transfer or assignment, the same 
nomination shall stand automatically revived when the policy is reassigned by the assignee or retransferred by the transferee in favour of 
the policyholder on repayment of loan other than on a security of policy to the insurer. 
 
(5) Where the policy matures for payment during the lifetime of the person whose life is insured or where the nominee or, if there are 
more nominees than one, all the nominees die before the policy matures for payment, the amount secured by the policy shall be payable to 
the policyholder or his heirs or legal representatives or the holder of a succession certificate, as the case may be. 
 
(6) Where the nominee or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or nominees survive the person whose life is insured, the 
amount secured by the policy shall be payable to such survivor or survivors. 
 
(7) Subject to the other provisions of this Section, where the holder of a policy of insurance on his own life nominates his parents, or his 
spouse, or his children, or his spouse and children, or any of them, the nominee or nominees shall be beneficially entitled to the amount 
payable by the insurer to him or them under sub-section (6) unless it is proved that the holder of the policy, having regard to the nature of 
his title to the policy, could not have conferred any such beneficial title on the nominee. 
 
(8) Subject as aforesaid, where the nominee, or if there are more nominees than one, a nominee or nominees, to whom sub-section (7) 
applies, die after the person whose life is insured but before the amount secured by the policy is paid, the amount secured by the policy, or 
so much of the amount secured by the policy as represents the share of the nominee or nominees so dying (as the case may be), shall be 
payable to the heirs or legal representatives of the nominee or nominees or the holder of a succession certificate, as the case may be, and 
they shall be beneficially entitled to such amount. 
 
(9) Nothing in sub-sections (7) and (8) shall operate to destroy or impede the right of any creditor to be paid out of the proceeds of any 
policy of life insurance. 
 
(10) The provisions of sub-sections (7) and (8) shall apply to all policies of life insurance maturing for payment after the commencement 
of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015. 
 
(11) Where a policyholder dies after the maturity of the policy but the proceeds and benefit of his policy has not been made to him 
because of his death, in such a case, his nominee shall be entitled to the proceeds and benefit of his policy. 
 
(12) The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any policy of life insurance to which Section 6 of the Married Women’s Property 
Act, 1874, applies or has at any time applied; 
Provided that where a nomination made whether before or after the commencement of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, in 
favour of the wife of the person who has insured his life or of his wife and children or any of them is expressed, whether or not on the face 
of the policy, as being made under this Section, the said Section 6 shall be deemed not to apply or not to have applied to the policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 16 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 16 of 18  
 
  Annexure - 3 
    
Section 45 as per the Insurance Act 1938 
 
 (1) No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of three years from the date of the 
policy, i.e. from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of 
the rider to the policy, whichever is later.  
 
(2) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of 
commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later on the ground of fraud: 
Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the 
insured the grounds and materials on which such decision is based. 
Explanation I- For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression “fraud” means any of the following acts committed by the insured or 
by his agent, with the intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance policy:- 
(a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not believe to be true; 
(b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the fact; 
(c) any other act fitted to deceive; and  
(d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent. 
Explanation II- Mere silence as to facts likely to affect the assessment of the risk by the insurer is not fraud, unless the circumstances of 
the case are such that regard being had to them, it is the duty of the insured or his agent, keeping silence to speak, or unless his silence is, 
in itself, equivalent to speak. 
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on the ground of fraud if the 
insured can prove that the misstatement of or suppression of a material fact was true to the best of  his knowledge and belief or that there 
was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of a material fact are within the knowledge of 
the insurer: 
Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the beneficiaries, in case the policyholder is not alive. 
Explanation – A person who solicits and negotiates a contract of insurance shall be deemed for the purpose of the formation of the 
contract, to be the agent of the insurer. 
 
(4) A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of  the policy or the date 
of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that 
any statement of or suppression of a fact material to the expectancy of  the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other 
document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider issued:  
 
Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the 
insured the grounds and materials on which such decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based: 
  
Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on the 
ground of fraud the premiums collected on the policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives or 
nominees or assignees of the insured within a period of ninety days from the date of such repudiation.  
 
Explanation - For the purposes of this sub-section, the misstatement of or suppression of fact shall not be considered material unless it has 
a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer, the onus is on the insurer to show that had the insurer been aware of the said fact no 
life insurance policy would have been issued to the insured. 
 
(5) Nothing in this Section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so, and no policy shall 
be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the life insured 
was incorrectly stated in the proposal.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 17 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V03)  
 
     Page 17 of 18  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure – 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 18 ---
LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan (UIN: 512N279V
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
V03)  
 
    Page 18 of 18  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure – 5 
 

