--- PAGE 1 ---
Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders
2024
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Life Insurance Corporation of India 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders, 2024 
                                        
 


--- PAGE 2 ---
Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders
2024
 
2 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
SECTION  
PAGE NO 
 
1: INTRODUCTION & OBJECTIVES 
3
2: SCOPE 
4
3: DEFINITIONS 
4
4: STEPS AND PROCEDURES 
5
5: SERVICE PARAMETERS 
7
6: MIS-SELLING & UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICES 
                 9 
7: RESPONSIBILITY  
10
  
8: MONITORING MECHANISM
10
9: REVIEW MECHANISM 
10
10:AMENDMENTS
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 3 ---
Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders
2024
 
3 
 
 
 
Section 1: Introduction and Objectives. 
 The broad objectives of the policy are enumerated below: 
 
a) Insurance Awareness Policy:  
 
 To spread financial literacy especially awareness for life insurance to all citizens of the 
country in order to equip them with knowledge, skills and confidence to make an 
informed choice about Financial Planning and Life insurance Products.  
 To make consumers aware of redressal mechanisms available for protection of their 
rights at various levels. 
 
b) Grievance Redressal Policy:  
 
 To strengthen the existing grievance mechanism and to reinforce our commitment of 
serving our customers with utmost sensitivity, accountability, transparency, fairness 
and with a sense of urgency. 
 
c) Policy on handling Spurious Calls Complaint:  
 To draw a set/ uniform procedure to be followed at all levels in the Corporation in 
respect of all such complaints received through all sources such as email, letters etc., 
thus reinforcing our commitment to our customers. 
 While sending commercial communications to the existing or prospective customers 
the extant regulatory requirements prescribed by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of 
India shall be fulfilled. 
 
d) Citizen’s Charter:  
 A mission statement reinforcing the commitment of the Corporation to the community, 
to the customers and to the workforce setting standards for fairness in dealing with 
customers along with details of Policy Servicing Benchmarks.  
 
IRDAI has notified Master Circular on Protection of Policyholder’s Interests Regulations, 2024 
vide notification dated 5th September 2024. Section 2 of the said Regulations states that:  
 
Every insurer shall have in place a board approved policy for protection of Policyholder’s 
Interests.  
 
This policy has been framed with an objective of bringing all aspects for protection of 
policyholder’s interests as stipulated in the IRDAI Protection of Policyholders Interest 
Regulations, 2024 into a single comprehensive policy.  
 
This policy shall, hereinafter, be called “Policy for the Protection of policyholder’s interests.” 
 
 


--- PAGE 4 ---
Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders
2024
 
4 
 
 
Section 2: Scope 
 
The scope of the policy includes the following: 
 
i. 
Steps to be taken for enhancing Insurance Awareness so as to educate prospects and 
policyholders about insurance products, benefits and their rights and responsibilities. 
 
ii. 
Service parameters including turnaround times for various services rendered. 
 
iii. 
Procedure for expeditious resolution of complaints. 
 
iv. 
Steps to be taken to prevent mis-selling and unfair business practices at point of sale 
and service. 
 
v. 
Steps to be taken to ensure that during policy solicitation and sale stages , the 
prospects are fully informed and made aware of the benefits of the product being sold 
vis-à- vis the product features attached thereto and the terms and conditions of the 
product so that the benefits/returns of the product are not mis-stated/mis-
represented. 
 
Section 3: Definitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a) 
“Complaint” or “Grievance” means written expression (includes communication in the 
form of electronic mail or other electronic scripts), of dissatisfaction by a complainant 
with insurer, distribution channels, intermediaries, insurance intermediaries or other 
regulated entities about an action or lack of action about the standard of service or 
deficiency of service of such insurer, distribution channels, intermediaries, insurance 
intermediaries or other regulated entities; 
Explanation: An enquiry or request would not fall within the definition of the “complaint” or 
“grievance”. Complaints arising out of or in relation to the servicing of policies referred to LIC 
by Public Authorities like Prime Minister’s Office, Ministry of Finance, IRDAI, Directorate of 
Public Grievances etc shall also be covered by this Policy. 
b) “Complainant” means a policyholder or prospect or any beneficiary of an insurance 
policy who has filed a complaint or grievance against an insurer or a distribution 
channel; 
 
c) 
“Distribution Channels” means persons and entities authorized by IRDAI to involve in 
sale and service of insurance products;  
 
d) “Grievance Redressal Officer” means a designated officer, who will be responsible for 
handling grievances as specified below:  
 
Office 
Designated Officer
Central Office 
Executive Director (CRM/PS)
Zonal Office
Regional Manager (CRM/PS)
Divisional Office 
Manager (CRM)


--- PAGE 5 ---
Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders
2024
 
5 
 
Branch Office 
Branch-in-charge
  
e) 
"Prospect” means any person who is a potential customer of an insurer and likely to 
enter into an insurance contract either directly with the insurer or through a distribution 
channel;  
 
f) 
 “Spurious Calls” means Unsolicited/Hoax/Unauthorized/Illegal calls received from 
unidentified persons claiming to be Officials of LIC/IRDAI/Government of India/Insurance 
Councils/other Insurance Companies/SEBI etc with the purpose of any of the following *: 
• To solicit new business. 
 
• Encourage the complainant to surrender of the existing policies and buy fresh policy 
with additional/enhanced returns/benefits. 
 
• To defraud the complainant by luring them to make payments by cash or cheque in 
favour of some private agencies/companies  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
May make false claims such as*: 
• Gifts, promotional offers, interest free loans freebies such as free credit card, 
mediclaim benefit, holiday packages etc. on investing in new policies. 
 
 
• Direct transfer of agent’s commission to complainant’s account, bonus transferred to 
lapsed policies etc. 
 
 Claiming bonus or incentive is being distributed under their lapsed/old/ 
matured/inforce policies. 
 
(* lists are only indicative not exhaustive) 
All such calls will come under the purview of ‘Spurious calls’ irrespective of whether the 
complainant has responded to it in any manner; 
Section 4: Steps and Procedures  
a) Procedure for registering General Complaints: 
 
 Policyholders can personally contact designated Officials and seek redressal of their 
grievances. The respective Grievance Redressal Officers will be available at their Offices 
for personal interviews with the customers on all Mondays between 2.30 p.m. and 4.30 
p.m. 
 
 Customers can meet the Grievance Redressal Officers on other days also with prior 
appointment. 
 
 The names of the Grievance Redressal Officers shall be displayed in the respective 
Offices, Official Website of LIC (www.licindia.in) and will also be published in the 
newspapers. 
 
 In addition to the above, the customers may also send their grievances, if any, through 
post, by e-mail etc to the respective servicing offices / Grievance Redressal Officers. 


--- PAGE 6 ---
Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders
2024
 
6 
 
 
 A centralized system known as Integrated Complaint Management System (ICMS) for 
on-line registration of the grievances by the policyholder is made available on our 
website (www.licindia.in). Policyholders can register their grievance related to their 
policies on-line. After registration of the grievance a Complaint Registration Number is 
allotted immediately which can be noted for future references such as viewing the 
status of the complaint, etc. As soon as the grievance is registered a system generated 
mail is sent to the Servicing Branch of that policy which in turn will attend to the 
grievance and post their compliance on the system. Any resolution detail posted by the 
Branch is approved by Higher Offices for closure. Once the grievance is resolved a 
system generated mail is sent to the customer informing about the action taken by LIC 
upon the grievance. 
 
  In select cities, special servicing centers called “Customer Zones” are also functioning, 
where customers may walk- in to register their grievances, if any.  
 
 Grievances related to repudiated death claims, “Claims Dispute Redressal Committees” 
are set up at Zonal Office level and Central Office level. The committee consists of two 
or more senior officers of LIC and an Honorable Retired Judge of the District Court/High 
Court. 
 
b) Procedure for registering complaints relating to Spurious Calls: 
 
The Corporation does not engage any telecaller services to call our policyholders. Policyholders 
receiving spurious calls are advised to follow the following guidelines:  
o Not to entertain calls from unverified sources and part with any information about 
their policy number or personal data such as DOB, PAN number, address, Aadhaar 
card number etc. 
 
o Lodge Police Complaint with the local Police Station. 
 
c) Steps to be taken for creating Insurance Awareness  
 
The Corporate website is updated from time to time on various insurance aspects so that the 
policyholder is abreast of latest information about insurance products, benefits and their rights 
and responsibilities. Each office of the Corporation has a designated role and the same is 
enumerated below: 
 
 Central Office: 
 Corporate website to be aligned with the Policy for protection of interests of 
policyholders.  
 Customer portal to be used to educate the customers. 
 Insurance Awareness advertisements to be issued from time to time on various 
aspects affecting customers in English, Hindi and all Regional languages. 


--- PAGE 7 ---
Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders
2024
 
7 
 
 Pan India campaign on TV as well as radio channels. 
 Social /Digital media viz: Facebook, Twitter, etc to be used for customer education. 
 Any other activity as deemed fit required for customer awareness. 
 Zonal Office: 
 Zonal Offices to incorporate the policy in all their training modules.  
 Zonal office to spread the message through appropriate media campaign and press 
releases. 
 Divisional Office: 
 Divisional Office to ensure training in all branches for all staff members on Customer 
Education policy. 
 Ensure discussion about the policy in all agents’ meet and training sessions. 
 Managers of the Divisional offices to visit big institutions, colleges, schools and 
other SSS paying authorities and make them aware about the policy. 
 Branch Office: 
 Branches to conduct maximum customer meets at all levels i.e. Branch 
headquarter, Taluka and village level and ensure that salient features are conveyed 
to maximum customers and also other people in the area. In the city areas such 
meetings can be held in important localities, schools, colleges and other places. 
 Display of boards / banners for educating customer on Citizens charter giving the 
policy servicing benchmarks. 
 
Section 5: Service Parameters 
a) Turnaround Time (TAT) and Process of Resolution of Grievances 
 
The policyholder or the claimant has the option to register the complaint on-line at LIC's website by 
visiting https://licindia.in/ 
 
 Written acknowledgement should be sent to customers immediately on date of receipt of 
grievance. In case, the complaint is submitted personally written acknowledgement to be 
provided to the customer at the time of submission of complaint. The acknowledgement to 
contain the name and designation of the officer who will deal with the grievance. 
 
 It will specify the approximate time required for redressing the grievance or otherwise. 
 
 The final letter of resolution/rejection is to be sent within 14 days of the receipt of the 
grievance. In case of rejection, the reasons for the same to be communicated to the 
customer. 


--- PAGE 8 ---
Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders
2024
 
8 
 
 
 If any case requires more time than what is mentioned above, the same is to be informed 
to the customer/ regulator giving reasons thereof mentioning the approximate time 
required to send the final reply. 
 
 Where the grievance is not resolved in favour of the policyholder or partially resolved in 
favour of the policyholder, the complainant is to be informed that he has the option to 
take up the matter before insurance ombudsman. 
 
 
b) Policy Servicing Bench Marks 
 
All offices will adhere to the following policy servicing bench marks as applicable: 
 
S. 
No. 
Service 
Description of Item of Service 
Regulatory Turnaround 
Time 
(Working Days) 
1
New Business 
proposal 
Processing 
Processing of Insurance Proposal and seeking 
further requirements for consideration of the 
proposal
7 days 
Decision on proposal from the date of receipt of 
proposal or from the date of receipt of additional 
requirement whichever is later
7 days 
Providing copy of the policy along with the 
proposal form 
15 days 
2
Post Policy 
Service 
Request 
Post Policy Service Requests concerning 
mistake/corrections in the policy document 
7 days 
3
Free-Look 
Cancellation 
Free Look Cancellation & Refund from the date of 
receipt of request 
7 days 
4
Policy 
Servicing 
 
(from the date 
of receipt of 
request  for 
the service 
specified) 
Change of Address (KYC Norms to be complied)
7 days 
Registration /Change of nomination, Assignment
Inclusion of new member in case of group policy
Alteration of ORIGINAL POLICY CONDITIONS 
(wherever applicable) 
Policy loan
Unit/ Index Linked Insurance Policy-Switch, Top-
up and other related Services. 
Decision on Policy Revival after receipt of all 
requirements. 
Issue of Premium Payment Certificates (PPC)
Issue of duplicate Policy
5
Death Claims 
Death claims settlements (not requiring 
investigations) 
15 days
Early death claims requiring investigations –
decision & payment 
45 days
6 
Survival, 
Maturity, 
Annuity 
payments  
Settlement of Maturity Claims 
On due date 
Settlement of Survival Benefits
Annuity payments/Pension Payments
Surrender or partial withdrawal of Policy 
7 days


--- PAGE 9 ---
Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders
2024
 
9 
 
7 
Health Claims 
Settlement of claims (other than cashless) 
15 days 
8 
Auto Action by 
the Insurer 
Premium Due Intimation 
One month before due 
date 
Policy Payments information (Survival Benefits, 
Maturity Benefits etc.) 
9 
Complaints 
Acknowledgement to complaint 
Same Day 
Action on Complaint & Intimation of Decision to 
the complainant 
14 days 
If complaint is NOT resolved by the Insurer, 
communicate the details to the Policyholder of 
options including referring the complainant to 
Insurance Ombudsman / Consumer court. 
14 days from original 
date of receipt of 
complaint. 
 
The service parameters and turnaround times as approved by the Board will be displayed on 
the website www.licindia.in  and updated as and when the same are revised by the Board from 
time to time.  
 
Section 6: Mis-Selling and Unfair Trade Practices: 
(A)   Steps taken by LIC to prevent mis-selling & unfair trade practices:- 
 
1) A prospectus of insurance product in font size of atleast 11 will be made available on our 
website www.licinida.in. 
 
2) Product brochures which are circulated to create awareness and educate the prospects 
and policyholders are as approved by IRDAI. 
 
3) Benefit illustrations and copy of proposal forms are to be provided as per IRDAI guidelines 
to the prospects/policy holders. 
 
4) Corporation to impart training to its market intermediaries regularly to sensitize them that 
the prospective customers are fully informed about unique selling proposition (USPs) of 
various plans in general & ULIP Plans in particular. 
 
              5) “Cooling Off” option to be communicated to the customers in case of dissatisfaction about  
the plan. 
 
  
(B)   Action taken against Agents 
  
1) The LIC of India (Agents) Regulations, 2017 which came into force from 02.02.2017, 
rescinding the existing LIC of India (Agents) Rules, 1972 under Regulation 8, specify  the 
‘Functions of the Agents’ and under the Second Schedule, specify  the ‘Code of Conduct’.   
 
2)   Any violation of the above Regulations, including mis-selling of insurance products and 
indulging in unfair business practices, further to investigation and charges being proved, 
invites disciplinary action as per the provisions of Regulations 15 and 16 along with 
Regulation 19(1) in accordance to the Fifth Schedule of the LIC of India (Agents) Regulations, 
2017 


--- PAGE 10 ---
Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders
2024
 
10 
 
 
Section 7: Responsibility: 
 Branch-in-Charge will be responsible for implementation of all aspects mentioned in the 
policy at Branch level. 
  
 Sr./Divisional Manager-in-Charge will be responsible for implementation of all aspects 
mentioned in the policy at Divisional level. 
 
 Zonal Manager-in-Charge will be responsible for implementation of all aspects mentioned 
in the policy at Zonal level. 
Section 8: Monitoring Mechanism 
Monitoring Mechanism in form of various MIS will be put in place to ensure that various 
services are rendered to the policyholders with the timelines prescribed by IRDAI. Monitoring 
mechanism for grievances is already in place through ICMS Module.  
 
Section 9: Review Mechanism 
CEO & MD shall constitute a Review Committee at Central Office. The Review Committee to 
review the implementation of the policy for the Corporation as a whole once in a year within 
45 days from the expiry of the financial year, ensure that the same are in conformity with the 
IRDAI Policy for Protection of Interests of Policyholders,2024. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 10: Amendments 
 
This policy will be subject to changes/ modifications as per IRDAI Guidelines/ Statutory 
Compliances. CEO & MD or any other officer duly authorized by him shall have the right to 
amend this policy. 
 
------------End of the Document---------------- 
 

