--- PAGE 1 ---
LIC’s New Tech-Term (UIN: 512N351V02)
(A Non-linked, Non-participating, Individual, Pure Risk
Premium Life Insurance Plan)
LIC’s New Tech-Term is a Non-Par, Non-Linked, Life,  Individual, Pure Risk Plan. This
Online plan provides financial protection to the insured’s family in case of his/her
unfortunate death during the policy term. This plan shall be available Online only
directly through website www.licindia.in.
Key features of LIC’s New Tech-Term:
•
Flexibility to choose from two benefit options: Level Sum Assured and
Increasing Sum Assured.
•
Flexibility to
o
Choose from Single Premium, Regular Premium and Limited Premium Payment
o
Choose the Policy Term/Premium Paying Term
o
Opt for payment of benefit in instalments.
•
Special rates for women.
•
Benefit of attractive High Sum Assured Rebate.
•
Two categories of premium rates namely (1) Non-Smoker rates and (2) Smoker
rates. The application of Non-Smoker rates shall be based on the findings of the
Urinary Cotinine test. In all other cases, the Smoker rates will be applicable.
•
Option to enhance coverage by opting for Accident Benefit Rider on payment of
additional premium for the rider benefit.
1.	 BENEFITS

Benefits payable under an in-force policy shall be as under:
A.	 Death Benefit:

Death benefit payable on death of the life assured during the policy term after
the date of commencement of risk but before the date of maturity provided the
policy is inforce and claim is admissible shall be “Sum Assured on Death”.

For Regular premium and Limited premium payment policy, “Sum Assured on
Death” is defined as the highest of:
•
7 times of Annualised Premium; or
•
105% of “Total Premiums Paid” upto the date of death; or
•
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.

For Single premium policy, “Sum Assured on Death” is defined as the higher of:
•
125% of Single Premium; or
•
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death.

Where,
i.
“Annualized Premium” shall be the premium payable in a year, excluding the taxes,
rider premiums, underwriting extra premiums and loadings for modal premiums
ii.	 “Total Premiums Paid” means total of all the premiums paid under the base
product, excluding any extra premium, and taxes.
iii.	 “Single Premium” shall be the premium amount payable, excluding the taxes,
rider premiums, underwriting extra premiums.
iv.	 Absolute amount assured to be paid on death shall depend on Death Benefit
Option chosen at the time of taking this policy and is as under:
o
Option I: Level Sum Assured

Absolute amount assured to be paid on death shall be an amount equal
to Basic Sum Assured, which shall remain the same throughout the policy
term.
o
Option II: Increasing Sum Assured

Absolute amount assured to be paid on death shall remain equal to Basic

--- PAGE 2 ---
Sum Assured till completion of fifth policy year. Thereafter, it increases by
10% of Basic Sum Assured each year from the sixth policy year till fifteenth
policy year till it becomes twice the Basic Sum Assured. This increase will
continue under an inforce policy till the end of policy term; or till the Date
of Death; or till the fifteenth policy year, whichever is earlier. From sixteenth
policy year and onwards, the Absolute amount assured to be paid on death
remains constant i.e. twice the Basic Sum Assured till the policy term ends.

For example, Absolute amount assured to be paid on death under a policy
with Basic Sum Assured of Rs. X will be Rs. X till the end of fifth policy
year, Rs. 1.1X during the sixth policy year, 1.2X during seventh policy year,
increasing so on by 10% of Basic Sum Assured each year till it becomes 2X
in fifteenth policy year. From the sixteenth policy year and onwards, the
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death will be 2X.

The Death Benefit Option once chosen cannot be changed later.
B.	 Maturity Benefit:

On survival of the life assured to the end of the policy term, no maturity benefit
is payable.
2.
ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS AND OTHER RESTRICTIONS
a)	 Minimum Age at entry
:	[18] years (Last Birthday)
b)	 Maximum Age at entry
:	[65] years (Last Birthday)
c)	 Maximum age at Maturity
:	[80] years (Last Birthday)
d)	 Minimum Basic Sum Assured
:	Rs. 50,00,000/-.
e)	 Maximum Basic Sum Assured
:	No Limit* As per underwriting decision

* The maximum Basic Sum Assured allowed to each individual will be subject to
underwriting decision as per the Board Approved Underwriting Policy.

The Basic Sum Assured shall be in multiples of:

Rs. 5,00,000/-, if Basic Sum Assured for the policy is Rs. 50,00,000/- to
Rs. 75,00,000/-.

Rs. 25,00,000/-, if Basic Sum Assured for the policy is above Rs. 75,00,000/-.
f)
Policy Term

- Minimum Policy Term: 10 years

- Maximum Policy Term:
i)	 Under Level Sum Assured death benefit option: 40 years. The maximum
Policy Term shall be subject to maximum Age at Maturity.
ii)	Under Increasing Sum Assured death benefit option: The maximum Policy
Term shall depend on the Age and Basic Sum Assured band and is as under.

Under Regular / Limited Premium:
Age
Band
Rs. 50 Lakh to less
than Rs. 1 Crore
Age
Band
Rs. 1 Crore. to
less than Rs. 2
Crore
Age
Band
Rs. 2 Crore. and
above
18-27
40
18-65
40 years subject
to maximum Age
at Maturity
18-65
40 years subject
to maximum Age
at Maturity
28-36
35
37-42
33
43-65
40 years subject to
maximum Age at
Maturity

--- PAGE 3 ---
Under Single Premium:
Age
Band
Rs. 50 Lakh to less
than Rs. 1 Crore
Age
Band
Rs. 1 Crore. to
less than Rs. 2
Crore
Age
Band
Rs. 2 Crore. and
above
18-24
40
18-28
40
18-65
40 years subject
to maximum Age
at Maturity
25-27
35
29-30
38
28-46
31
31-65
40 years subject
to maximum Age
at Maturity
47-65
40 years subject to
maximum Age at
Maturity
g)	 Premium Paying Term :

Regular Premium
:	Same as policy term

Limited Premium
:	 [Policy Term minus 5] years for Policy Term [10 to

	 40] years

:	[Policy Term minus 10] years for Policy Term

	 [15 to 40] years

Single Premium
:	NA
3.	 OPTIONS AVAILABLE
I.
Optional Riders:

The policyholder has an option of availing LIC’s Accident Benefit Rider
(UIN:512B203V03) under Regular Premium and Limited Premium payment
mode by payment of additional premium during the Premium Paying Term,
provided the outstanding Premium Paying Term is atleast five years. The benefit
cover under this Rider shall be available during the Premium Paying Term only
or up to the policy anniversary on which age nearest birthday of the Life Assured
is 70 years, whichever is earlier. If this rider is opted for, in case of accidental
death, the Accident Benefit Rider Sum Assured will be payable as lumpsum
along with the death benefit under the base plan.

The premium under this Rider shall not exceed 30% of the premium under the
Base plan. The Accidental Benefit Sum Assured shall not exceed three times of
the Basic Sum Assured under the Base policy.

For more details on this rider, refer to the Rider brochure on our website www.
licindia.in.
II.	 Option to take Death Benefit in instalments:

This is an option to receive Death Benefits in instalments over the chosen
period of 5 or 10 or 15 years instead of lump sum amount under an inforce
policy. This option can be exercised by Life Assured during his/her lifetime; for
full or part of Death benefits payable under the policy. The amount opted for by
the Life Assured (i.e. Net Claim Amount) can be either in absolute value or as a
percentage of the total claim proceeds payable.

The instalments shall be paid in advance at yearly or half-yearly or quarterly
or monthly intervals, as opted for, subject to minimum instalment amount for
different modes of payments being as under:
Mode of Installment payment
Minimum installment amount
Monthly
Rs. 5000/-
Quarterly
Rs. 15000/-
Half-Yearly
Rs. 25000/-
Yearly
Rs. 50000/-

If the Net Claim Amount is less than the required amount to provide the
minimum instalment amount as per the option exercised by the Life assured,
the claim proceed shall be paid in lump sum only.

--- PAGE 4 ---
For all the instalment payment options commencing during the 12 months’
period from 1st May to 30th April, the interest rate used to arrive at the amount
of each instalment shall be annual effective rate not lower than the 10 year
semi-annual G-Sec  yield minus 2 %; where, the 10 year semi-annual G-Sec yield
shall be as at last trading day of previous financial year.

Accordingly, for the 12 months period commencing from 1st May, 2024 to 30th
April, 2025, the applicable interest rate for the calculation of the instalment
amount shall be 5.07% p.a. effective.

For exercising option to take Death Benefit in instalments, the Life Assured
can exercise this option during his/her lifetime while in currency of the policy,
specifying the period of Instalment payment and Net Claim Amount for which
the option is to be exercised. The death claim amount shall then be paid to
the nominee as per the option exercised by the Life Assured and no alteration
whatsoever shall be allowed to be made by the nominee.
4.	 PAYMENT OF PREMIUMS

Regular Premium, Limited Premium or Single Premium payment options are
available under this plan. In case of Regular and Limited Premium payment, the
premium can be paid regularly during the Premium Paying Term with modes of
premium payment Yearly or Half Yearly.

The premium payable will depend on the age at entry of the life to be
assured, smoking status, gender, policy term, Premium Paying Term and Sum
Assured Option chosen. Under Single Premium, minimum premium shall be Rs
30,000/-. Under Regular and Limited Premium mode, the minimum premium
shall be Rs 3,000/-.
5.	 GRACE PERIOD (APPLICABLE FOR REGULAR AND LIMITED PREMIUM PAYMENT

A grace period of 30 days shall be allowed for payment of yearly or half-yearly
premiums from the date of First Unpaid Premium. During this period, the policy
shall be considered inforce with the risk cover without any interruption as per
the terms of the policy.

If the premium is not paid before the expiry of the days of grace, the
Policy lapses.

The above grace period will also apply to Rider premiums which are payable
along with premium for Base Policy.

All the benefits shall cease after the expiry of grace period from the date of First
Unpaid Premium under such policies and nothing shall be payable.
6.	 SAMPLE ILLUSTRATIVE PREMIUM

The sample illustrative premiums for both Option I (Level Sum Assured) and Option
II (Increasing Sum Assured) for Basic Sum Assured of Rs. 1 Crore for Non-Smoker,
Male, Standard lives under different Premium Payment options are as under:

Option I (Level Sum Assured):
Age (Last
Birthday)
Policy
Term
Regular
Annual
Premium
(in Rs.)
Annual
Premium
for Limited
Premium
Paying Term
of (Policy
Term minus
5) Years
(in Rs.)
Annual
Premium
for Limited
Premium
Paying Term
of (Policy
Term minus
10) Years
(in Rs.)
Single
Premium
(in Rs.)
20
20
7,047
8,091
10,266
75,603
30
20
9,135
10,527
13,572
1,00,833
40
20
17,889
20,737
26,878
2,03,187

The above premiums are exclusive of taxes.

--- PAGE 5 ---
Option II (Increasing Sum Assured):
Age (Last
Birthday)
Policy
Term
Regular
Annual
Premium
(in Rs.)
Annual
Premium
for Limited
Premium
Paying Term
of (Policy
Term minus
5) Years
(in Rs.)
Annual
Premium
for Limited
Premium
Paying Term
of (Policy
Term minus
10) Years
(in Rs.)
Single
Premium
(in Rs.)
20
20
9,345
10,769
13,795
1,02,617
30
20
13,083
15,219
19,669
1,47,562
40
20
27,846
32,396
42,224
3,20,684

The above premiums are exclusive of taxes.
7.	 REBATES/LOADINGS

The following rebates/loadings shall be applicable:
(i)	 High Sum Assured Rebate (Applicable for Regular, Limited & Single
Premium payment:

The high sum assured rebates are as under:
a)	 Under Option I: Level Sum Assured
Age Band (LBD)
High SA rebate as a % of Tabular Annual/Single
Premium
Less than
Rs 1 Crore
Rs 1 Crore to less
than Rs 2 Crore
Rs 2 Crore and
above
Upto 30 years
Nil
13%
22%
31 to 50 years
Nil
11%
17%
51 years and above
Nil
6%
9%
b)	 Under Option II: Increasing Sum Assured
Age Band (LBD)
High SA rebate as a % of Tabular Annual/Single
Premium
Less than
Rs 1 Crore
Rs 1 Crore to less
than Rs 2 Crore
Rs 2 Crore and
above
Upto 30 years
Nil
11%
20%
31 to 50 years
Nil
9%
15%
51 years and above
Nil
5%
8 %
(ii)	 Modal Loading (applicable for Regular and Limited Premium payment):
Mode
Loading as a % of tabular annual premium
Yearly
Nil
Half-Yearly
2%
8.	 REVIVAL

If the premiums are not paid within the grace period, then the policy will lapse.
A lapsed policy can be revived, within a period of 5 consecutive complete
years from the date of First Unpaid Premium.  The revival shall be effected on
payment of all the arrears of premium(s) together with interest (compounding
half yearly) at such rate as may be fixed by the Corporation from time to time
and on satisfaction of Continued Insurability of the Life Assured on the basis
of information, documents and reports that are already available and any
additional information in this regard if and as may be required in accordance
with the Underwriting Policy of the Corporation at the time of revival, being
furnished by the Policyholder/Life Assured.

The Corporation reserves the right to accept at original terms, accept with
modified terms or decline the revival of a discontinued policy. The revival of the
discontinued policy shall take effect only after the same is approved, accepted
and revival receipt is issued by the Corporation

The rate of interest applicable for revival under this product for every 12
months’ period from 1st May to 30th April shall not exceed 10 year G-Sec rate

--- PAGE 6 ---
p.a. compounding half yearly as at the last trading day of previous financial year
plus 3 % or the yield earned on the Corporation’s Non-Linked Non-Participating
Fund plus 1% whichever is higher. For the 12 month’s period commencing from
1st May, 2024 to 30th April, 2025, the applicable interest rate shall be 9.50% p.a.
compounding half yearly. The basis for determination of interest rate for policy
revival is subject to change.

If a lapsed policy is not revived within the revival period but before the date of
Maturity, the policy will automatically terminate. In case of Regular Premium
policies, nothing shall be payable. However, in case of Limited Premium Payment
policies, the amount as payable in case of surrender shall be refunded and the
policy will terminate.

Revival of rider, if opted for, will be considered along with revival of the Base
Policy, and not in isolation.
9.	 PAID-UP

There is no paid-up value available under this plan.
10.	 SURRENDER

No surrender value will be available under this Plan. However on surrender of
policy in the following cases (for both Level Sum Assured (Option I) as well as
Increasing Sum Assured (Option II) options), an amount equal to Unexpired Risk
Premium Value, if any, shall be payable:
a)	 Regular Premium policies: Nothing shall be payable.
b)	 Single Premium Policies: The applicable Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any,
shall be payable anytime during the Policy Term.
c)	 Limited Premium Payment: The applicable Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if
any,  shall only be payable if full premiums have been paid for at least:
i)
Two consecutive years in case of premium paying term less than 10 years.
ii)	 Three consecutive years in case of premium paying term of 10 years or more.

In case of a lapsed policy, on surrender of policy during the revival period,
applicable Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, shall be payable. However, on
expiry of revival period, the policy shall terminate and Unexpired Risk Premium
Value, if any shall be paid to the policyholder. In case of death of the life Assured
under a lapsed policy, during the revival period, applicable Unexpired Risk
Premium Value, if any, shall be payable.
11.	 POLICY LOAN

No loan will be available under this plan.
12.	 FORFEITURE IN CERTAIN EVENTS

In case it is found that any untrue or incorrect statement is contained in the
proposal, personal statement, declaration and connected documents or
any material information is withheld, then and in every such case the policy
shall be void and all claims to any benefit by virtue thereof shall be subject
to the provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from
time to time.
13.	 TERMINATION OF POLICY:

The policy shall immediately and automatically terminate on the earliest
occurrence of any of the following events:
a)	 The date on which lump sum death benefit / final instalment of death benefit is
paid; or
b)	 The date on which Unexpired Risk Premium Value, if any, is settled, in case of
surrender of policy ; or
c)	 The date of maturity; or
d)	 On expiry of Revival Period, if the policy has not been revived within the revival
period; or
e)	 On payment of free look cancellation amount; or
f)	 In the event of forfeiture as specified in Para 12.

--- PAGE 7 ---
14.	TAXES:

Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Government of
India or any other constitutional Tax Authority of India shall be as per the Tax
laws and the rate of tax as applicable from time to time.

The amount of any applicable taxes, as per the prevailing rates, shall be payable
by the policyholder on premium(s) ( for Base Policy and Rider, if any) including
extra premiums, if any, which shall be collected separately over and above in
addition to the premiums payable by the policyholder. The amount of Tax paid
shall not be considered for the calculation of benefits payable under the plan.

Regarding Income tax benefits/implications on premium(s) paid and benefits
payable under this plan, please consult your tax advisor for details.
15.	FREE LOOK PERIOD

If the Policyholder is not satisfied with the “Terms and Conditions” of the policy,
the policy may be returned to the Corporation within 30 days from the date of
receipt of the electronic or physical mode of the Policy Document , whichever
is earlier, stating the reasons for objections. On receipt of the same, the
Corporation shall cancel the policy and return the amount of premium deposited
after deducting the proportionate risk premium (for Base Policy and Rider(s),
if any) for the period of cover, expenses incurred on medical examination,
(including special reports, if any), and for stamp duty charges.
16.	SUICIDE EXCLUSION:
(i)	 Under Single premium policy:

If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide at any time
within 12 months from the date of commencement of the risk, the Nominee
or beneficiary of the Life Assured shall be entitled to 80% of the Single
Premium paid.
(ii)	 Regular /Limited Premium Payment policy:

If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide at any time within
12 months from the date of commencement of risk, or from the date of revival
of the policy, as applicable, the nominee or beneficiary of the Life Assured shall
be entitled to 80% of the total premiums paid till the date of death, provided the
policy is in force

This clause shall not be applicable for a lapsed policy as nothing is payable under
such policies.

Note: Single Premium/ Premium referred above shall not include any taxes,
extra premium and Rider premium, if any.
17.	Grievance Redressal Mechanism

Of the Corporation:

The Corporation has Grievance Redressal Officers (GROs) at Branch/ Divisional/
Zonal/ Central Office to redress grievances of customers. The customers can visit
our website (https://licindia.in/web/guest/grievances) for names and contact
details of the GROs and other information related to grievances.

For ensuring quick redressal of customer grievances the Corporation has introduced
Customer friendly Integrated Complaint Management System through our Customer
Portal (website) http://www.licindia.in, where a registered policy holder can directly
register complaint/ grievance and track its status. Customers can also contact at
e-mail id co_complaints@ licindia.com for redressal of any grievances.

Claimants not satisfied with the decision of death claim repudiation have the option
of referring their cases for review to Zonal Office Claims Dispute Redressal Committee
or Central Office Claims Dispute Redressal Committee. A retired High Court/ District
Court Judge is member of each of the Claims Dispute Redressal Committees.

Of IRDAI:

In case the customer is not satisfied with the response or do not receive
the response from us within 15 days, then the customer may approach the
Policyholder’s Protection and Grievance Redressal Department through any of
the following modes:

--- PAGE 8 ---
i)
Calling Toll Free Number 155255/18004254732(i.e. IRDAI Grievance Call Centre-
(BIMA BHAROSA SHIKAYAT NIVARAN KENDRA))
ii)	 Sending an email to complaints@irdai.gov.in
iii)	 Register the complaint online at https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/
iv)	 Address for sending the complaint through courier/letter:

General Manager, Policyholders Protection and Grievance Redressal Department,
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, Survey No. 115/1,
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad-500032, Telangana.

Of Ombudsman:

For redressal of Claims related grievances, claimants can also approach Insurance
Ombudsman who provides for low cost and speedy arbitration to customers.
18.	How to purchase LIC’s New Tech-Term

Step-by-step process to buy LIC’s New Tech-Term Online:
1)	 Log-on to our website (www.licindia.in) for buying this online product. Click on
‘Buy Policies Online’. Select plan LIC’s New Tech-Term.
2)	 Click on ‘Buy Online’. Choose your desired Sum Assured, Sum Assured option
(Level/Increasing), Policy Term, Premium Payment option (Regular/Limited/
Single) and Premium Payment Mode (Yearly/Half-yearly) for Regular and Limited
Premium Payment option, Date of Birth, Gender and Smoking status.
3)	 After filling in the details, a premium calculator will calculate the premium for
the chosen parameters.
4)	 Enter other details such as Name, Address, Occupation, Qualification etc.
displayed on the screen and complete the proposal form online.
5)	 Pay premium online and fulfil the underwriting requirements, if any.

Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938

The provision of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 e as amended from time
to time shall be applicable. The current provision is as under:
(1)	 No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever
after the expiry of three years from the date of the policy, i.e. from the date of
issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival
of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later.
(2)	 A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years
from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or
the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever
is later on the ground of fraud:

Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or
the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds
and materials on which such decision is based.

Explanation I- For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression “fraud”
means any of the following acts committed by the insured or by his agent, with
the intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance
policy:-
(a)	 the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not
believe to be true;
(b)	 the active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the
fact;
(c)	 any other act fitted to deceive; and
(d)	 any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent.

Explanation II- Mere silence as to facts likely to affect the assessment of the
risk by the insurer is not fraud, unless the circumstances of the case are such
that regard being had to them, it is the duty of the insured or his agent, keeping
silence to speak, or unless his silence is, in itself, equivalent to speak.
(3)	 Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2), no insurer shall repudiate
a life insurance policy on the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the
misstatement of or suppression of a material fact was true to the best of his
knowledge and belief or that there was no deliberate intention to suppress the

--- PAGE 9 ---
fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of a material fact are within the
knowledge of the insurer:

Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the beneficiaries,
in case the policyholder is not alive.

Explanation – A person who solicits and negotiates a contract of insurance shall
be deemed for the purpose of the formation of the contract, to be the agent of
the insurer.
(4)	 A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years
from the date of issuance of  the policy or the date of commencement of risk or
the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever
is later, on the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to
the expectancy of  the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or
other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider
issued:

Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or
the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds
and materials on which such decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is
based:

Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of
misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on the ground of fraud
the premiums collected on the policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to
the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured
within a period of ninety days from the date of such repudiation.

Explanation - For the purposes of this sub-section, the misstatement of or
suppression of fact shall not be considered material unless it has a direct bearing
on the risk undertaken by the insurer, the onus is on the insurer to show that had
the insurer been aware of the said fact no life insurance policy would have been
issued to the insured.
(5)	 Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at
any time if he is entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in
question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent
proof that the age of the life insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal.

PROHIBITION OF REBATES (SECTION 41 OF THE INSURANCE ACT, 1938):
1)	 No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an
inducement to any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance in
respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the
whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown
on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy
accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the
published prospectuses or tables of the insurer.
2)	 Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall
be liable for a penalty which may extend to ten lakh rupees.
Various Sections of the Insurance Act, 1938, applicable to LIC to apply as amended
from time to time.
This product brochure gives only salient features of the plan. For further details
please refer to the Policy Document on our website www.licindia.in or contact
our nearest Branch Office.
To purchase the policy online please log on to www.licindia.in
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS / FRAUDULENT OFFERS
IRDAI or its officials do not involve in any activities of insurance business like
selling insurance policies, announcing bonus or investment of premiums, refunds
of amounts. Policyholders or the prospects receiving such phone calls are
requested to lodge a police complaint.

--- PAGE 10 ---
LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA
	 “Life Insurance Corporation of India” was established on 1st September, 1956
under Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956, with the objective of spreading life
insurance more widely, in particular to the rural areas with a view to reaching all
insurable persons in the country and providing them adequate financial cover
against insured events. LIC continues to be the important life insurer even in
the liberalized scenario of Indian insurance and is moving fast on a new growth
trajectory surpassing its own past records. In its existence of over six decades, LIC
has grown from strength to strength in various areas of operation.

--- PAGE 11 ---
Registered Office:
Life Insurance Corporation of India,
Central Office,
Yogakshema, Jeevan Bima Marg, Mumbai – 400021.
Website: www.licindia.in
Registration Number: 512
