Breadcrumb
Grievances
Grievance Redressal System in LIC of India
In a vast organisation like LIC, catering to the various needs and aspirations of millions of policyholders, grievances of customers do arise occasionally. In order to redress these grievances LIC has established elaborate grievance redressal machinery, the details of which are as under:
I) Grievance Redressal Officers:
Grievance Redressal Officers have been designated at all levels of the Organisation :
At the Branch level:
The Sr/Branch manager
Click here for the list
At the Divisional level:
Manager, CRM
Click here for the list
At the Zonal level:
The Regional Manager CRM
Click here for the list
At the Central level:
The Executive Director CRM
Click here for the list
For P&GS policies:
At the Zonal level:
Click here for the list
At the Unit level:
Click here for the list
Policyholders can personally contact these designated Officials and seek redressal of their grievances.
The respective Grievance Redressal Officers are available at their Offices for personal interviews with the customers on all Mondays between 2.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., except on holidays without prior appointment.
Customers can meet the Grievance Redressal Officers on other days also with prior appointment.
The names of the Grievance Redressal Officers are displayed in the respective Offices
Online Complaints
Policy holders may register and track status of their policy related grievances online through Customer Portal if they are registered users.
In case you are not registered user of Customer Portal, please register yourself. It is mandatory to provide your policy number, premium amount, date of birth, mobile number and email id while creating your portal id.
Policy holders may send their policy related grievances on email id co_complaints[at]licindia[dot]com
Report any breach of ethics to our Chief Vigilance Officer
ALTERNATE GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MACHINERY
OFFICE OF INSURANCE OMBUDSMAN IS AN ALTERNATE GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL PLATFORM SET UP WITH AN AIM TO RESOLVE GRIEVANCES RELATED TO INSURANCE SECTOR
Before approaching Insurance Ombudsman,
•Register your complaint with us. It can also be registered online through customer portal.
•If you are not satisfied with the response received on your grievance, you can contact Insurance Ombudsman.
•You may register your complaint online on website or offline.
For more information on Office of Insurance Ombudsman please visit
www.cioins.co.in
बीमा लोकपाल
INSURANCE OMBUDSMAN
​
Page Last Update Date :
06/08/2026